Finding an On-campus Part-Time Job at Concordia
Jul 14, 2015 kmcloughlin
Language
English
Searching for work on-campus? Start your search now by learning about where and how to apply for on campus jobs at Concordia.
FINDING A JOB ON CAMPUS
For full-time students:
Most on-campus positions require a work-study authorization from Concordia University. This is independent of any governmental regulations regarding employment. Therefore, even Quebec residents need to apply for this authorization.
Eligibility requirements:
Applicants must be full-time students with good academic standing who have demonstrated financial needs.
When to apply: For the 2016-2017 academic year, here are the key dates you need to know:
Fall Term: Applications for Work-study program authorization will be accepted until July 15, 2016. Jobs will be posted as of August 1, 2016
Winter Term: Applications for Work-study program authorization will be accepted between October 15 and November 15, 2016. Jobs will be posted as of December 1, 2016
To apply for the Work Study Program:
Log on to your ,
Click on "My Student Centre" on the left side of the screen,
Then click on "My Student Centre",
In the middle of the page, under Finances/Financial Aid, click on "Apply for Bursaries or Scholarships".
Choose "Concordia Aid Year 15-16"
You will have to complete Step 1
After you complete Step 1, the online applicatin for the Work-Study program will be available to you under Step 3
Please note that the submission of  an application for Work-Study Authorization does not guarantee employment.
for detailed information about the work-study program
On the link above, you will find a tab entitled “Check the Work Study job posting schedule.” It tells you when the jobs are posted each semester.
to view work-study job postings managed by the Office of Financial Aid and Awards
Work-study jobs consist of three categories: Concordia, Quebec, and International. Although special conditions may apply, generally international students are eligible to apply for jobs in the Concordia and International categories, non-Quebec Canadian students are eligible to apply for jobs in the Concordia categories, and Quebec students are eligible to apply for jobs in the Concordia and Quebec categories.
In addition to the job postings above, the Concordia Student Union also offers part-time work-study positions. Please note that these positions usually require applicants to be eligible for the work-study program.
to view Job postings at the Concordia Student Union
For both full-time and part-time students:
Since the contact information of each office may change from time to time, we only list the names of the offices and the positions. To contact a particular office, search “Concordia University [office name]” to get to its website.
-Advancement Office: annual giving call centre positions, alumni events
-Recreation and Athletics: referees, timekeepers, ticket sellers, parking attendants, etc.
-Campus retail stores: casual part-time cashiers, customer service clerks, shipping and receiving clerks
-IITS (Instructional and Information Technology Services): IT projects
-Chartwells (Food vendor on campus): general help
-Welcome centre: campus tour guides
-Exams office: invigilators (graduate students only)
For PDF version click
HOJO Articles
2 of 3
​
Quick Links
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email -
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved