How to get a REALLY GREAT Summer Job - Part 1
Sep 30, 2014 Anonymous (not verified)
Language
Undefined
The early bird gets the worm! Read on for some jobs that hire in the winter for good-paying summer jobs!
FSWEP (Federal Student Work Experience Program) FSWEP is a government initiative that provides full time students with hands on experience related to different departments such as Parks Canada, Industry Canada, Border Services and Fisheries and Oceans Canada. These job opportunities include office and clerical work, field and lab work, information technology and working outdoors. The FSWEP campaign opens in October of each year and runs all year long. However, summer job opportunities close in late January-early February yearly. Make sure you check the website often during this period. FSWEP summer jobs usually run from mid April to Mid August working 37.5 hours a week. Students should apply through the
site.  Application date: Open all year long Summer job application : Mid-January Starting Rate of pay for Undergraduate students: $12.58/hour (effective Jan 1st, 2013) Starting Rate of Pay for Master’s students: 17.40$/hour (effective Jan 1st, 2013) For further information, please do not hesitate to drop by HOJO during office hours.
Odyssey Odyssey is a paid work experience program as a language assistant in schools of different provinces. It is an opportunity to help younger students, either in elementary or secondary schools, improve their second official language through games and activities. Participants will be able to share their culture and the unique linguistic features of their region with students. They will also be working under the supervision of a teacher and encouraging students to communicate in their second language. Every participant will assist training sessions organized by hosting provinces during the program. Chosen candidates will be working 25 hours a week, from Monday to Friday, for a nine month period. Interested students should fill the online application form and attach all the necessary documents.Student should apply through the  website. Eligibility criteria - Proficiency in student’s second language - Must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident - Before the start of the work term students must have completed first year of university Application period : December to February Salary : 18,500.00$ for nine months (25 hours/week)
HOJO Articles
1 of 3
​
Quick Links
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email -
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved