Neighbourhoods in Montreal
Jun 23, 2015 kmcloughlin 0 comments
Language
English
Make sure that you know your rights as a tenant before you choose any apartment by visiting our office, the  in the Hall building, room H-260. You can also check out our  for apartment hunters. Register as a student and search through our moderated  website with many ads for apartments, rooms, roommate profiles and more!
Notre-Dame-de-Grâce
Among Montreal’s most popular student neighbourhoods, NDG is home to the Loyola campus and is between a 20-45 minute commute from downtown campuses. During the school year, the Concordia University shuttle brings you to and from both campuses. Given that the area is very residential, there is not a lot of night life, but there is a large variety of restaurants. Rent varies depending on proximity to Westmount and Hampstead, although typically NDG is more costly than Côte-des-Neiges or South-west neighbourhoods.
Metros: Vendome, Villa-Maria, Snowdon
Mile End
Sometimes considered the Northern extension of the Plateau Mont Royal, the Mile End stands on its own as one of Montreal’s most popular gentrified neighbourhoods. Small and personable restaurants and businesses abound, the Mile End never fails to please the strolling pedestrian. One difficulty some students encounter within this area is public transport. Needless to say, the Mile End encourages a strong bike culture. While many dwellings in this area still remain affordable, rent is becoming increasingly costly and metro access can be difficult.
Metros: Laurier, Rosemont
Plateau
Although still a strong student neighbourhood, with the conversion of many dwellings to condos and single-family homes the area has become among the most expensive in the city. Extremely accessible from the downtown core, the plateau has strong public transport access and an extensive bike path. Another neighbourhood rich in quaint businesses and cultural spots, the Plateau is also the inner-city hot spot for green and public spaces.
Metros: Mont-Royal, Sherbrooke, Laurier
Sud Ouest: St Henri/Verdun/Lasalle/Pointe-St-Charles
While this area is actively shifting from a working-class neighbourhood to “the new Plateau” the Sud-Ouest or South-west is still home to some of the most affordable apartments in Montreal. With a variety of cheap eats and a Super C at the most Western part of the area, it is an extremely popular student neighbourhood. Adjacent to the downtown core, the Sud-Ouest is generally no more than a 20-minute commute from the SGW campus.
Metros: St-Henri, Lionel-Groulx
Little Burgundy/Griffintown
Now a rapidly shifting neighbourhood, Little Burgundy/Griffintown is the area south of the Ville Marie Expressway directly south of the Western part of the downtown area, including Concordia`s Sir George Williams campus. Formerly one of Montreal’s oldest working-class neighbourhoods, the area along the canal has now been transformed into more elite condo dwellings, surrounded by fancy-fare restaurants and stores. The convenient aspect of this neighbourhood for many students is that the Northen part of Griffintown still remains fairly affordable and is accessible to the downtown area by foot.
Metros: Lionel-Groulx, Georges-Vanier, Lucien-L’Allier
Côte-des-Neiges
Remaining an extremely affordable area North-West to the downtown area, Côte-des-Neiges is an older and ethnically diverse area. One advantage that many students appreciate about this area, beyond the affordable rent, is the range of student-accessible amenities such as twenty-four hour grocery stores, coffee shops and easy bus and metro access.
Metros:Côte-des-Neiges, Snowdon, Université de Montréal
Villeray/Saint-Michel/Parc Extension
Generally home to more francophone and immigrant communities, this area is among Montreal’s lower income areas. Due to this, the rent is reasonably priced and the local amenities are overall fairly affordable. Inexpensive food and groceries abound! In coming years the formerly industrial area between the Mile End and Parc Extension has been the subject of a potential residential development project marketed as “Mile Ex.” Until then, the cost of living in this area is among the cheapest in the city.
Metros: Cremazie, Jean-Talon, Jarry
Downtown
The largest and most accessible area of the city, the downtown area spans from Atwater to Papineau, dividing itself into distinct areas that cater to different commercial and residential interests. Among the most expensive areas of the city, Concordia students often have difficulty acquiring adequate and affordable housing, and landlords generally don’t maintain the best reputation in this area. Regardless, the nightlife and amenities of the downtown core are among the best in the city.
Metros: Atwater, Guy-Concordia, Peel, McGill, Place-des-Arts, St-Laurent, Berri-UQAM, Lucien L’Allier,
General
Montreal is generally a great place to live. A rule of thumb is to walk around the neighbourhood where you may want to live.  That way, you’ll have a better idea as to what your neighbours may be like and what the neighbourhood has to offer you. Come and pick up a Metro or city map and other resources in our office and begin your search!  We've been working on a new web resource that has in-depth information on all the neighbourhoods in Montreal that students may be interested in renting in, along with price averages, diverse food options and transportation options. Check it out at
Before you find a place, make sure you know your rights as a tenant, including what landlords may and may not ask of you. Questions? Visit our office at H-260 or e-mail us at .
Check out HOJO's 2015 Montreal Rental Price Averages Document in  or .
HOJO Articles
2 of 3
​
Quick Links
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email -
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved