6 simple ways to get ready for winter
Jun 23, 2015 kmcloughlin 0 comments
Language
English
1.Get heavy drapes for your windows.             2.Wash your clothing in cold water – this         3.Fill in any gaps or cracks aroundIn the summer, keep them closed in                will save you around 25 cents per load,            your doors with caulking to deal drafts.    the daytime to cool your place down.               and lengthens the lifespan of your brights!      Make sure you get the right type of In the winter, keep them open during                                                                                       caulking for the surface.
the day to allow the sun in.
4.Just as your ceiling fan can help you cool    5.Buy shrink-film plastic insulation to cover       6.Not only can this help you avoid frozen pipesin the summer months, it can warm your        your windows amd seal drafts.Installation        (yikes!) and save on water heating but home in the winter. Warm air rises, so           can be a little tricky so get help from friends      it also can help conserve water becausesimply put the switch in reverse to                 or look up an instructional video!                       you won't have to wait as long for it to heat up! re-distribute the heat.
A few more tips:
1. Replace your incandescent bulbs with compact fluorescent lights  – these use less than about ¼ the energy and last a lot longer.2. Take short showers.  A five-to-ten minute shower uses about half as much hot water as a bath.
3. Turn off your lights!  Turning off the lights when you leave a room will save you a considerable amount of energy – and why light an empty room anyway?
4. Unplug your standby appliances – your computer won’t suffer if it’s turned off, and your DVD player will have a longer life if you keep it off when it’s not being used.  This can save you several hundred kWhs/year.  Attach them to a power bar, to cut their power off easily.
5. Make sure you inform your landlord about leaks and drips – you are paying for that wasted water and energy!  Better yet, come to our office for all the paperwork to take recourse against the landlord!
Some Important Links:(Organized by relevancy for students)
If you would like to know about what the average heating cost would be in an apartment where heating is not included, you can call the following companies:
Hydro Quebec:  (514) 363-7443
Gaz Metro: (514) 598-3222, option 3
TIP: Remember to ask Hydro Quebec about the 'Equalized Payment Plan' if you are worried about huge bills during the winter (where heating is NOT included).  This means you can pay the same amount of hydro each month during the year.
HOJO Articles
2 of 3
​
Quick Links
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email -
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved