Finding Work Off Campus
Jul 14, 2015 kmcloughlin
Language
English
Looking for work off campus? Check out these resources from Concordia and the community that can help you find the right job for you. Remember to know your rights and watch out for scams!
Concordia University has two departments that can help you with your off-campus job search:
:
Location: 2070 Mackay (SGW campus)
Location: H-440 (SGW campus) and AD-103 (LOY campus)
Some examples of the services that these two departments offer:
1.      Career development workshops (resume, cover letter, job search, etc.)
2.      Career counselling
3.      Assistance with your resumes, cover letters, and personal statements
4.      Assistance with your job search
5.      Mock interviews
For students at the John Molson School of Business, Concordia provides another career development office:
:
Location: MB 004-301
Two job databases provided by Concordia University:
1.      The first database is managed by the Counselling and Development department at Concordia.
The database can be accessed at: myconcordia.ca -> Student Services -> Counselling and Development -> CAPS -> Job Postings
2.      The second job database is managed by the
at the John Molson School of Business. Only JMSB students can access it.
Non-Concordia job databases:
Job search engines:
Job banks by the federal government:
Job bank by the Québec government:
Take advantage of the resources and information published on other universities’ websites:
In addition to Concordia’s resources, other universities have their career development websites on which students can find many resources.
McGill University’s
University of Waterloo’s :
Recommended Concordia resources and programs that can help you with off-campus job search:
A brief overview of resources regarding :
A brief overview of
Programs offered by
Concordia :
Job search resources offered by the :
An online mock interview tool offered by :
Recommended non-Concordia resources that can help you with off-campus job search:
is an English-language service for students and young professionals in Montreal. Most of the services are offered free of charge:
Advice on preparing a Québec-style résumé offered by :
Curriculum vitae VS Résumé:
A résumé is different from a curriculum vitae (CV). A résumé is much shorter than a CV, and is used for looking for a non-academic job. A CV is usually for academic positions such as professorship. However,in Québec, the term CV is used often interchangeably with a résumé.
Networking:
Some may argue that networking is the most powerful tool for job search. Here are some resources about networking and developing your professional connections.
The easiest step is to join the student association in your department, program of study, or
faculty. For instance, JMSB students can join the Commerce and Administrative Students’ Association :
provides a community for people to improve their public speaking skills while networking.
Concordia has its own
Professional Etiquette:
Tips on
Information on salaries:
Note that the information on salaries may not apply to non-career-oriented/part-time jobs.
For a PDF version of our Basic Employment document click
For a PDF version of our Minimum Wage postcard click
HOJO Articles
2 of 3
​
Quick Links
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email -
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved