Volunteer Abroad
Jun 23, 2015 kmcloughlin 0 comments
Language
English
At the CSU Off Campus Housing and Job Bank, we offer hundreds of opportunities to find volunteer or paid work here in Montreal.  But for those of you who want to volunteer around the world for a meaningful cause, or just travel and receive some financial remuneration, check out these volunteer and work opportunities overseas …For more tips to get you started, come into our office for a free information package.AWARDS AND GRANTS FOR OVERSEAS STUDIES aims to develop a cadre of Canadians with a deep understanding of global policy issues who will exercise leadership roles whether in non-governmental organizations or the private and the public sectors. The awards are destined for young emerging leaders in Canada who have a passion for and a proven commitment to enhancing Canada’s role in the world. is a non-profit, Canadian and African membership-based association with the mandate to support African women entrepreneurs in their efforts to participate in international trade.The
are the Rotary Foundation's oldest and best-known program, was founded in 1947. Since then, nearly 38,000 men and women from about 100 nations have studied abroad under its auspices. Today it is the world's largest privately funded international scholarships program. Nearly 800 scholarships were awarded for study in 2005-06. Through grants totaling approximately US$500 million, recipients from about 70 countries studied in more than 70 nations.VOLUNTEERING/WORKING AND INTERNSHIPS OVERSEAS
is a fee levy association of Concordia which supports youth focused community led development through partnership with organizations in Gulu Uganda.  The program offers an accesible experiential learning oppurtunity for Concordia students to volunteer internationally towards the goals of the program. The
is a network of individuals that share information about no or minimal fee meaningful travel and volunteer travel opportunities around the globe.  These opportunities can include anything from volunteering at an orphanage, to a festival, to wildlife conservation to you name it. (IYIP) is an employment program for young Canadians between the ages of 19-30. If you’re a post-secondary graduate, you could be eligible for this chance to work in a developing country and contribute to Canada’s international development goals. Not only will this experience contribute to your personal and professional growth, your sponsor organization will lend a helping hand in your search for employment once your internship ends.UNA-Canada offers internship opportunities with their new
(UNPP) programme which will meet the needs of a broader range of individuals seeking international work experience at UN agencies and other international think tanks around the world. Unlike IYIP, there are no upper age restrictions nor will participation in a previously funded international programme disqualify you.Canada World Youth designs and delivers
for youth (aged 17-24) with a focus on volunteer work and community development in a cross-cultural setting.This section of their site offers a large amount of great organizations to check out.Created in 1995, the
program enables young Quebecers aged 18 to 39 to take part in solidarity fieldwork in developing countries. It is a chance for them to discover new cultures, share values of solidarity, participate in tangible projects and develop personal and vocational skills. (CCI) is an international development organization that is reducing poverty, mitigating the impact of HIV and AIDS and increasing women’s rights around the world. Working with local partners in 28 projects, in eight countries and supported by hundreds of volunteers each year, Crossroads leverages expertise and resources, North and South, required to help people overcome poverty and assert their human rights. is an international movement that is helping people share more sustainable ways of living.  In return for volunteer help, WWOOF hosts offer food, accommodation and opportunities to learn about organic lifestyles. WWOOF organisations publish lists of organic farms, smallholdings and gardeners that welcome volunteer help at certain times. The diversity of hosts available offers a large variety of tasks and experiences.Wherever you are in the world, the
website is the most complete official Internet site for finding an Au Pair . The only internationally recognized Au Pair website!The ’s mission is to improve and develop cooperation and friendship between the two nations.  They offer several exchange programs for 18-35 year olds, such as inter-municipality jobs, agricultural exchanges, and professional exchanges.Volunteering LocallyThe
started recently in Montreal.  Meetings at 454 Laurier est.  Everyone welcome!'s website has a list of volunteer opportunities for Non-profits in Canada is a micro-banking website, where your loans go directly to the working poor in developing countries.  Do some good without getting off the couch!
Concordia has its own Volunteer center called the . They can hook you up with a number of exciting volunteer opportunities!
HOJO Articles
1 of 3
​
Quick Links
Contact Information
Downtown: 1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd West, H-711 Montréal, QC H3G 1M8
Loyola: 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, CC-426 Montréal, QC H4B 1R6
Phone - 514 848-7474 | Fax: 514 848-7450
Email -
Concordia Student Union | Copyright 2016 | All Rights Reserved