Transformation
Fifty-year-old tables from the Concordia Library have been reconditioned and are now located on LB-3 in the Webster Library, in the Curriculum Collection. These tables were salvaged from the Norris Building by Gheri Celin (a now-retired library employee), when the downtown…
The Library is once again innovating with its installation of the University’s first living walls, nine of them, to be precise. Concordia has opted for the Envirozone living wall system. The company is based in Montreal. “Several years of research…
Geneviève Hart, Designer from Facilities Management, continues to play an instrumental role in the complex selection and acquisition of furniture and in keeping track of the number of seating spaces in Webster Library. As of August 2017, the count is…
Webster Library’s book collection with call numbers H – QA 76.79 will be returned from off-site storage Three new silent reading rooms Six new group study rooms Four presentation practice rooms
From data logging with Raspberry Pi to analogue synthesizers, 3D printing and soldering… 14 different workshops topics for everyone. Beginners welcome and encouraged! More information: http://library.concordia.ca/help/workshops/technology-sandbox.php
The first carrels with 18-inch dividers have been installed in the Reading Rooms on LB-2. This specific type of carrel will help fill the need expressed by many students for an enhanced concentration-friendly study environment. We will be installing additional…
As we know, technology and digital learning tools are having a profound impact on the teaching and learning process and on the classroom itself. Webster Library’s two new classrooms are designed with this new mode of learning in mind. The…
Weekly workshops will be held from June until July. Registration required. 3D Modelling 101 3D Printing 101 Arduino 101 Raspberry Pi 101: Cat selfie machine Intro to Linux Photoshop CC Crash Course Intro to OpenSCAD Intro to Soldering
Now library visitors have more options for scanning documents. We’ve recently added a mini tabletop book scanner to the Course Reserves room in the Webster Library. Scan books or documents with the machine on the left, then adjust your scans…
Recent Posts
Archives
Categories
Concordia University Library Feedback? E-mail us at
© 2017
— Powered by
Theme by
—