Study resources
Campus services
What's New
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Log into ...
Study resources
Campus services
What's New
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Discovery Search
Library
Concordia
Search
«  |
/
/
/
University Librarian
On this page
See also
A message from Dr. Beaudry
Guylaine Beaudry, Vice-Provost, Digital Strategy & University Librarian
© Concordia University, photo by Marc Bourcier
Dear Students,
I would like
to extend a very warm welcome to you all – both new and returning students ― to
the Concordia Library. Concordia Library consists of the Webster and Vanier libraries
and the Grey Nuns reading room.
The Library is an important partner in your academic success.  We have a team of dedicated librarians and
staff ready to assist you with a variety of services, such as
subject-specific research across our comprehensive print and digital
collections, the use of our interlibrary loans services, or simply borrowing a
laptop or tablet.  Please feel free to
ask. We are here to assist you!
During the last academic year (2016-17), our Teaching & Learning Librarian
redesigned and launched a set of 5 modular library workshops designed specifically for first-year students.  In addition to introducing you to our many
services, these workshops will explain how to develop effective research
questions, locate articles and books and how to best take notes when
researching for a term paper. These workshops can be taken together, or
separately. For more information:  .
We are eagerly
looking forward to the opening of part of the third floor and the fourth floor
on September 12. This means that new and returning students will be able to enjoy
the full benefits of a renovated Webster
Library.  We plan to celebrate the completion
of the Webster Transformation in style in January 2018.  Stay tuned, you’ll be invited!
Finally, I want
to express my appreciation and gratitude to the Library Services Fund
Committee (LSFC) and its student representatives for their ongoing
support. Last year, the LSFC helped fund, among other things, 24-hour access to the Vanier Library
and Webster Library (during the academic year), the laptop and tablet loan program and the acquisition of textbooks and other course materials for both the Webster
and Vanier Library reserve rooms.
As
always, I welcome your thoughts on how Concordia Library can continue to
address and best serve your academic needs.  Please do not hesitate to
contact me at .
I wish you
a most productive fall 2017 term!
Sincerely,
Guylaine Beaudry, PhD
Vice-Provost, Digital Strategy & University Librarian
August 24, 2017
About Dr. Guylaine Beaudry
Guylaine Beaudry was appointed to the position of
university librarian by Concordia’s Board
of Governors for a five-year term, effective May 1, 2014.
Beaudry joined the university in October 2009 as
director of the Webster Library, and she has served as interim university
librarian since July 2013. Previously, she was director of the Digital
Publishing Centre at the Université de Montréal and executive director of
Érudit, a publishing platform for scholarly books and journals in the social
sciences and humanities.
She has authored many books on scholarly publishing,
including
(2011) published at
Hermès/Lavoisier and
(2012) at
Les Presses de l’Université de Montréal. She served as president of the
Corporation of Professional Librarians of Quebec from 2008 to 2010. She is a
member of the Royal Society of Canada Expert Panel on the status and future of
libraries in Canada.
Her work has been funded by the Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council of Canada and the Fonds québécois de recherche sur
la société et la culture.
Beaudry holds a PhD in History of the Book from École
pratique des hautes études (Paris) and a Master of Library and Information
Science from Université de Montréal.
page last updated on: Thursday 9 November 2017
Back to top
CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -
Webster Library
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H3G 1M8
Vanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Feedback forms
Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback.
Concordia social
Webster Library
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H3G 1M8
Vanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University