Study resources
Campus services
What's New
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Log into ...
Study resources
Campus services
What's New
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Discovery Search
Library
Concordia
Search
«  |
/
/
/
Researcher-in-residence program
On this page
See also
2017 researcher-in-residence
On January 23, 2017, Concordia University Library introduced Emily Kopley as its first
researcher-in-residence. The move is part of a
to foster a strong
research culture within the Library's walls.
.
Call for applicants for the 2018 researcher-in-residence
The call for applicants for the 2018 researcher-in-residence is now closed.
About
Concordia University is one of Canada's most dynamic universities in one of North America's most livable cities. It reflects a unique blend of commitments to diversity, accessibility, social responsibility, and innovation. With over 46,000 students (6,300 international) and nearly 1,700 full-time and part-time professors, Concordia is recognized for offering a rich academic experience combined with strong community engagement.
This is a time of change for Concordia University Library. A new library space was recently inaugurated in the Grey Nuns Building. A major renovation and expansion project is transforming the Webster Library at the Sir George Williams Campus (downtown), and will be complete in the fall of 2017. An innovative technology program is being developed and will contribute to enhance the students experience in the libraries.
Concordia Library recently developed a
for
2016-2021. Some of the highlights from the plan's goals and objectives include:
The transformation of service offerings to provide an outstanding user experience
The launch of the Concordia University Press to disseminate engaging research in the form of open access scholarly books
The creation of a platform for the preservation and dissemination of oral history
material
The promotion of research and innovation in library and information studies
In light of this, the Concordia Library Researcher-in-Residence program was created to promote research in the library and the use of research by practitioners. The program offers the opportunity for scholars, information professionals, or doctoral students to focus on an area of inquiry in a supportive and enriching environment, and to interact with Concordia Library staff and its resources.
The presence of the Researcher-in-Residence in Concordia Library has as one of its goals to foster a culture of research. It is hoped that throughout the residency, both the researcher and staff will become engaged in the use of research in library practice and the concept of evidence-based librarianship.
The residency period is from January 1 to December 1, 2018. Proposals which include alternative start dates and those of different duration will also be considered.
The inaugural Researcher-in-Residence began in January 2017. More information can be found on the Concordia . For the second Researcher-in-Residence program, Concordia Library invites proposals relating to any of the Library’s strategic plan goals as well as the following themes:
The
role of the library in a next-generation university
The
role of the library in the digital humanities
Collection
development in an increasingly connected world
Use
of space for learning and research
Digital
libraries
Communication
and outreach to users
Efficacy
of library instruction
Professional
development and capacity building of library staff
Researchers and practitioners from library and information studies, as well as other disciplines (e.g., anthropology, computer science, education, informatics, media studies, sociology) are welcome to apply.
Scope
As part of
the program, Concordia Library will provide:
Dedicated workspace in Concordia
Library
Access to computing facilities
Access to library resources, print
and electronic collections, and technological infrastructure
Opportunities for the
Researcher-in-Residence to interact with Concordia Library staff
Other types of in-kind support may
be made available
In return,
the Researcher-in-Residence is expected to participate in the intellectual life
of Concordia Library. This participation may take various forms, including:
Presenting research in progress to staff
Providing learning opportunities in
the form of seminars or workshops for a campus or library audience on topics
related to their own expertise
Participating in selected activities
in Concordia Library, depending upon the relevance to their research, their
expertise, and interest. Such activities include:
Committee
meetings
Special
events
Brown
bag talks, seminars, round tables, or other information sessions
Concordia
Library Research Forum
Meeting individually with librarians
and library staff (e.g., office hour drop-ins, or by appointment)
Funding
For a current PhD student, postdoctoral fellow, or independent scholar, a stipend of $20,000, plus up to $2,500 for travel/research expenses
For a faculty member on sabbatical leave, research funds of up to $20,000 (budget required)
Eligibility
PhD
students, postdoctoral fellows, and full-time members of academic staff are
eligible to apply. The proposed research should make a contribution to the
knowledge base of librarianship, libraries, or information studies. Professors
and librarians preparing for a sabbatical are encouraged to apply.
Application and instructions
Applications
should include information about the applicant, including the expertise brought
to the program:
Letter of intent, including
a
description of study / project proposal
Proposed
in-library activities (outline of activities to be undertaken during the period
of residency)
Proposed
research outputs
Curriculum vitae
Short biography (100 words)
For all applicants not on sabbatic leave, two letters of recommendation should be supplied. For doctoral students, one of these should be from the applicant’s doctoral supervisor. Letters of recommendation should be submitted electronically directly by the referee.
For members of academic staff, a
budget should also be included
Selection criteria
Submissions
will be evaluated by a selection committee composed of the University Librarian
and four librarians using these criteria:
Quality
and originality of the proposed research project
Demonstrated
ability to complete the proposed project based on previous accomplishments
Significance
of the proposed research for librarianship, libraries, or information studies
Deadline
The application process opens April 3, 2017.
The deadline for receiving the complete application and letters of recommendation is August 4, 2017 by 5:00 PM EDT. Applications may be submitted in either English or French.
Applications should be submitted as a single PDF file to Lorie Kloda, Associate University Librarian, Planning & Community Relations, at
Notification
of the successful candidate will be given in September 2017.
page last updated on: Thursday 24 August 2017
Back to top
CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -
Webster Library
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H3G 1M8
Vanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Feedback forms
Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback.
Concordia social
Webster Library
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H3G 1M8
Vanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University