Study resources
Campus services
What's New
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Log into ...
Study resources
Campus services
What's New
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Discovery Search
Library
Concordia
Search
«  |
/
/
/
Call for Proposals for Public Art
On this page
Call for Proposals for Public Art in the Webster’s Visualization Studio
Issued by: Concordia University Library
Issued Date: October 17, 2017
Submission Deadline: November 14, 2017 Extended to November 24, 2017 at 11:59 pm
Call to: Members of the Concordia University community and affiliated
Commission and Artist Fees:
up to $8,000 CAD
Announcement: Deadline Extension
The deadline for this call for proposal has been extended to November 24, 2017 at 11:59 pm.
Summary
The Concordia Library is seeking to commission a content creator or team to
create an engaging custom public audio-visual art piece to celebrate the launch
of the Visualization Studio and the completion of the Webster Library renovation.
The visualization will be displayed on the touch-interactive wall of the
Visualization Studio, on the third floor of the Webster Library, and will be
visible to all visitors. It will be one of the main visualizations showcasing
the new space.
The Concordia Library welcomes artists, creatives, scientists, engineers,
interdisciplinary scholars to apply and encourages bold, creative and playful projects.
Applications will be open until November 24, 2017, at 11:59 pm, and can be submitted by email.
Selected works must be operational by March 2017.
Commission and Artist Fees: up to $8,000 CAD
Eligibility Requirements
Open to artists, content creators and
teams in the Concordia Community or with a Concordia affiliation (alumni,
fulltime and part-time students, faculty, staff, etc.)
Submission Deadline: November 14, 2017 Extended to November 24, 2017 at 11:59 pm
Installation: March 2018
About the Visualization Studio
The Visualization Studio is a visualization environment; an innovative,
collaborative and interdisciplinary creative facility for research, teaching
and learning, situated in the Webster Library.
The Visualization Studio supports new and experimental modes of research,
emerging technologies and interdisciplinary collaborative work; and offers
immersive visualizations and visualization analytics.
The studio will open its doors in February 2018.
Project Description
To celebrate the Library’s recent renovation, the Concordia Library is looking
for creative members of the Concordia community -- designers, scientists, engineers,
creatives, artist groups, etc. -- to create an audiovisual or visual piece to
display on the Visualization Studio’s interactive wall. The commission piece will
mark the launch of the Visualization Studio and will be used to showcase the potential
of the studio and its interactive wall. The selected work will also be presented to a
passing audience.
Artwork on the Visualization Studio’s interactive wall can function as a form
of communication to an audience in transit through the Library, with the goal
of creating a vibrant and interesting environment.
Successful content submissions must be innovative in design and engaging.
Submissions that are interactive, playful and immersive are encouraged.
Selected submissions will be used to showcase the space as one of the main
demo pieces in the Visualization Studio, and will be displayed on the interactive
wall outside of work hours and when the studio is not in use.
This means that submissions must be first and foremost functional as standalones
without any technical supervision, and must run from the graphical workstation,
which is the main computer in the Visualization Studio. Pieces can be augmented
with VR, interactivity and sensors, but must remain functional as a plug-and-play
function so they can be put on display and occupy the whole wall when the studio is locked.
Applicants whose work is selected will be asked to showcase a prototype in January 2018.
The final piece must be operational by March 2018.
Selection Criteria
Submissions to the call will be reviewed and assessment made on the following:
Ability of the proposed piece to showcase the potential of the Visualization Studio
Ability of the proposed piece to create a sense of wonder and immersion
Adherence to timelines as described in the above documentation
Merit based on previous work and capacity to deliver
Art Location Description
The Visualization Studio is 36 ft wide and 25 ft long. There is a 23 ft wide window opposite the interactive wall, which interfaces with the hallway.
The interactive wall display will remain turned on outside of opening hours and will act as a digital space for public exhibits, public art, etc.
Site location and plans
Technical Description
Interactive wall of 30 x 6 ft, composed of 27x ultra-thin bezel 46” Planar
LCD panels, each with a resolution of 1920 x 1080
High end graphic workstation with 3 x 4k graphics cards, running Windows 10
2x HTC Vive workstations
Technical grid on the ceiling
8 speaker, 4 channel sound system
Technical Schematic
Budget
The selected applicant or team will receive funding of up to $8,000 CAD to produce their proposed work.
Eligibility
Applicants must be affiliated with Concordia (Faculty, students, staff) or partnered with Concordia members. This invitation is open to creative applicants from all backgrounds and disciplines.
Application Requirements
To submit a proposal, please prepare the following material (maximum 8 pages):
- Please complete this information form and include it in your proposal.
Project approach (750 words and 4 visuals maximum) - Text and visual preliminaries
describing your proposed visualization. If needed, you are welcome to use the
template of the interactive wall provided below to aid in your mockups. You can also use any other visual means to illustrate your idea.
Interactive wall template:
Technical approach (2 pages maximum) - Please detail the proposed timeline, budget breakdown, and when applicable, all relevant details regarding the technology, development environment and libraries you will be using. We are particularly interested in dependencies.
Digital image work samples - Please include a URL to your online portfolio and links to a maximum of 3 selected representative works.
If you are applying as a team, please send portfolio URLs for each of your team members, if applicable, and choose 2 representative works per portfolio. Please include artist name(s), title and year. Demo reels are welcome.
CV or Artist statement -
for team submissions, please send CVs of all participants.
Deadline
The deadline to submit a proposal has been extended to November 24, 2017, at 11:59 pm.
Submission Address
Please send your completed submission by email to , with the subject line “Vis Studio Project Proposal - Your Name”. Please zip all documents in one folder.
Selection Process
The successful candidate (or team) will be selected by a jurying process and will be notified by December 12, 2017, at the latest.
Shortlisted candidates may be invited for an interview.
Timeline
Date
Event
October 17, 2017
Call for Proposals announced
November 24, 2017
Submission deadline
December 12, 2017 (at the latest)
Successful applicants notified
February 2018
Prototype
March 2018
Work is operational
Contact Us
If you require further information please contact Tina Salameh by emailing
or calling 514.848.2424 ext 7621.
page last updated on: Monday 13 November 2017
Back to top
CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY -
Webster Library
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H3G 1M8
Vanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Feedback forms
Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback.
Concordia social
Webster Library
1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H3G 1M8
Vanier Library
7141 Sherbrooke St. W.
Montreal,
Quebec,
Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University