Site maintenanceConcordiaStores.ca will be down for scheduled maintenance November 22nd between 8AM-9AM EST.
JavaScript seems to be disabled in your browser.
You must have JavaScript enabled in your browser to utilize the functionality of this website.
log in / register
Search:
Search
Recently added item(s)
You have no items in your shopping cart.
.
.
Popular categories
.
Popular categories
.
Popular categories
.
Popular categories
.
Popular categories
.
Special pricing for students!
Search by course
Search
Search for course material by course. Just enter the department, course number and section (optional). Example: ACCO 220 01
Search
Search for course material by course. Just enter the department, course number and section (optional). Example: ACCO 220 01
Student booklist
Enter in your Concordia student ID to get your personalized booklist for all of the courses you are registered for.
Enter in your Concordia student ID to get your personalized booklist for all of the courses you are registered for.
/
Jobs
Working for Concordia Stores
What kind of jobs are available at Concordia Stores?
Typically we're hiring for what we call "casual part-time" positions, such as
cashiers, customer service clerks, and shipping/receiving clerks for Concordia Stores.
Please note that we are currently no longer hiring for the September 2017 session. Thank you to all that applied.
Warehouse - these positions requires heavy lifting and is in a fast-paced environment.
This position requires attention to detail, fluency in reading English and the ability to
work without distraction. During busy times some work is required on the sales floor shelving books.
The ability to work with computers in a Windows-based environment is required.
Customer Service - these positions are at the information desk and in the textbook section of the store
answering customer questions and helping them to find the books they need. Excellent communication skills are
required.
Cashiers - these positions are in a fast-paced environment (especially during the back-to-school rush), and
requires attention to detail, good communication skills, and a working knowledge of computers.
How long do you hire for?
These are typically short-term employment opportunities. Many of these jobs are just for the busy
periods at the start of a new semester (about one month - depending on the position). There are a lot of positions available for back-to-school,
and the months leading up to it (ie. in the summer).
Do I have to be a student at Concordia University to work for Concordia Stores?
No, we also hire non-students. Additionally, we welcome applications from local CEGEP students too.
When is the best time to apply for a job?
The best time to apply for a job at the Bookstore is at least a month before the start of a new term in order
to allow time for training new staff before the back-to-school rushes begin.
So, the best times to apply are in June-July (Summer hiring for the September rush), and in November-December
(for the January back-to-school rush).
People for the stock room jobs are typically needed starting in early Summer when the
textbooks for the Fall term start arriving. Cashier & Customer Service positions are usually hired about a
month before the start of classes.
How do I apply?
Are you a Concordia University student?
Are you eligible for Work Study?
See if you're eligible and apply .
Please email .
Include your CV and your available hours (Note: we do not operate on the weekend).
If you're an international student at Concordia, in order to show that you can work in Canada
legally, also please provide:
A photocopy of your Study Permit
Note that we usually get far more applications than there are jobs available - only people who are being asked in for
a meeting will be contacted.
To apply for other permanent and contract staff employment at Concordia University, please see the
web site. The HR department does not handle student
jobs, the various university departments do that directly.
For a list of other departments which regularly hire students, visit the
section of the
Concordia University main website.
Newsletter sign-up
Sign Up for Our Newsletter:
Subscribe
Sign up to receive our latest deals and promotions right to your inbox.
Student booklist
Enter in
your 8-digit student ID:
List books
Enter your Concordia student ID to look up your personalized student booklist.
About us
Contact us
Quick links
Concordia Stores social
© Concordia University  &nbsp
&nbsp
&nbsp
&nbsp