Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/political-science.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Political Science (PhD)
Political Science (PhD)
Doctorate (PhD)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Doctorate in Political Science?
Deepen your advanced training and creativity as an independent researcher while working alongside experts in Canadian and Quebec politics, comparative politics, international relations, political theory, and public administration and public policy. Conduct primary research through surveys, archival data collection and fieldwork as you develop an original contribution to the discipline.
The PhD in Political Science provides a stimulating environment for you to examine disciplinary subfields and gain a breadth of understanding in two areas of specialization. Research-active
will help refine your analytical and writing skills, enabling you to better prepare your research for publication in top-ranking peer-reviewed academic journals.
Students have recently been published in multiple periodicals, including:
Ageing and Society
Canadian Journal of African Studies
Canadian Political Science Review
Electoral Studies
International Journal of Canadian Studies
International Journal of Public Administration
Journal of Defense Studies
Public Organization Review
Urbanités
Benefit from faculty-led inter-institutional and university-wide , such as the , the
and the
(GRIPP). Our students have also found great success funding their research through fellowships and awards from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, the Fonds de recherche du Québec – Société et culture, GRIPP Montreal, and the CSDC.
Program details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits. In order to fulfill the requirements of the program, students will select two areas of specialization. The requirements are 21 credits of course work, 12 credits in the form of two comprehensive exams, 3 credits of thesis proposal, and 54 credits of thesis.
Courses (21 credits). All candidates must take seven 3-credit courses as described below:
All students will select two areas of specialization (for example Canadian Politics and International Politics). Course work is divided into core courses and elective courses. Each student will take:
2 core courses, one in each of the two chosen areas of specialization (POLI 801-805 Advanced Seminars);
2 elective courses, one in each of the same two chosen areas of specialization (POLI 811-815);
1 core course in public policy (POLI 805), where public policy is one of the two chosen areas of specialization, the elective course is to be selected from a third area;
1 elective course from any area of specialization or a cognate course in a related field;
1 methods course (POLI 844).
Comprehensive Examination (12 credits in the form of 2 comprehensive examinations). All candidates are required to write two 6-credit comprehensive exams in their two areas of specialization, so that they are deemed competent to teach at the university level in these two areas. For each area of specialization there will be a written exam and an oral defence of the exam within three weeks of writing the former. Students must pass the written exam to move forward to the oral exam, but can still fail an exam with an incompetent oral performance. If either part (written or oral) is failed, the student will be permitted one re-take of the entire exam both oral and written. If the student then fails either the written or oral part, the second failure will result in the student being withdrawn from the program.
Thesis Proposal (3 credits). After completion of the course work and comprehensive exams, the candidate with the concurrence and assistance of the Graduate Program Director finalizes the supervisory committee, consisting of the principal supervisor(s) and at least  two other members of the department. Students are required to complete and defend their thesis proposal before the supervisory committee in a meeting chaired by the Graduate Program Director. The thesis proposal will include a literature review and a fully justified research agenda. In cases where the supervisory committee is not satisfied with the proposal, the student can resubmit and re-defend. A second unsatisfactory proposal would result in the student being withdrawn from the program.
Thesis (54 credits). Doctoral students must submit a thesis based on their research and defend it in an oral examination. A doctoral thesis should be based on extensive research in primary sources, make an original contribution to knowledge, and be presented in acceptable scholarly form.
Language Requirement. PhD candidates must demonstrate an ability to conduct research either in French or in a language (other than English) required in their area of research.
Admission Requirements. Admission to the PhD in Political Science requires a Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in political science, political studies, international relations, public policy, or another relevant field from an accredited university. A superior academic record and strong references are both essential; professional work experience will be taken into consideration. Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, statement of purpose, writing sample, and the relevance of their proposed research to the research expertise in the department. Enrolment in the PhD in Political Science is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose (2 pages, single spaced) should:
provide a synopsis of your research interests and goals
identify your particular fields of interest (i.e., intended fields of specialization)
explain how a PhD in Political Science from Concordia University will help you achieve your goals
identify at least one tenured or tenure-track faculty member with whom you would like to work. NB: students do not have to find a supervisor prior to admission
highlight how your research interests fits with ongoing research in the department
explain what makes you a good candidate for the program
Writing sample. You may submit any of the following as your writing sample:
introduction and one chapter of your master’s thesis;
a peer-reviewed publication for which you are the sole author;
a conference paper for which you are the sole author;
a MA-level term paper for which you received an “A” grade
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Political Science
PhD
Jan. 15
n/a
n/a
Examples of special topics courses include:
Ageing and Public Policy
Development Policy and Administration
Ethics, Morality and Justice
Feminist Critiques of Public Policy
Gender and Global Politics
Immigration Politics and Policy
Indigenous Peoples and the State
International Organizations
Judicial Politics and Policy
Nationalism and Ethnicity
.
Students are guaranteed teaching assistantships for the first three years of their studies, valued at approximately $6,000 per year. Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research initiatives.
The opportunity to teach courses may also be available to students who have defended their dissertation proposals. These positions are awarded on a competitive basis and are valued at approximately $8,000 per semester.
Other awards available through the Faculty of Arts and Science include:
Concordia Merit Scholarship
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship
Concordia International Tuition Award of Excellence
JW McConnell Memorial Doctoral Fellowship
John W. O'Brien Graduate Fellowship
Conference Travel Awards
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.
Please also consult The Department of Political Science’s  and .
Environmental politics and policy
Biodiversity and conservation
Energy policy
Natural resources
Sustainable development
Immigration and social diversity
Indigenous peoples
Social integration of immigrants
Politics of the Charter
Value diversity
Gender and Feminist Studies
Feminist and critical policy studies
Gender based analysis and gender mainstreaming
Gender politics
Transgender kids
Global South (Africa, China, India, Latin America, Middle East, South Asia)
Clientelism and patronage politics
Development policy and administration
Electoral politics
Ethnicity and nationalism
Politics of violence
History of Political Thought
Ancient to modern political thought
Political emotions
Political literature
Political rhetoric
Religion and science
International Relations
European Union
International political economy
Non-governmental organizations
Strategic studies
United Nations
Social Policy
Ageing and social service
Biotech policy
Health policy
Reproductive policy
Learn more about
and consult the list of .
Review an inspiring list of
and read about some of our .
The
provides a platform to stimulate opportunities for all members in a variety of cultural, intellectual, political, recreational and social activities.
Recent initiatives of the PSGSA include a graduate student conference in which students from Quebec, Ontario and Atlantic Canada present their work and foster dialogue across multiple fields and disciplines. Past conference themes have included “Political and Economic Crises and their Implications,” “Challenges, Disconnects, and Clashes in Political Studies” and “Trends and Dynamics in Global Politics.”
Our alumni are well positioned to find success in a wide range of professional careers in policy research, political analysis, applied work, policy consulting and academia. Recent graduates can currently be found teaching at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, as well as working as senior managers and technical advisors at the International Aviation Transport Association and Micronutrient Initiative.
Key resources
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2126
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University