Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/environmental-geography.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Environmental Geography (BSc)
Environmental Geography (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Environmental Geography?
Explore the relationships between people and the landscape, whether it’s your own backyard or a vast region on the other side of the planet.  As an Environmental Geography major, you’ll take courses in geography, geology and biology, and enjoy the flexibility to complement your studies in another field of interest.
Through labs, lectures and projects, you’ll acquire the analytical skills to assess the impact of human activity on natural landforms and cycles. During the program you’ll also:
Study the causes and consequences of environmental change
Learn to gather and interpret statistical data
Acquire technical knowledge of computerized mapping and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Learn to develop effective and efficient policies for environmental management
After graduation, your knowledge and technical skills will prepare you for a career in environmental planning, design and restoration, environmental assessment or resource management.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations:
Major in Environmental Geography (45 credits)
Minor in Environmental Geography (24 credits)
More information
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may changedepending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 23.000
Canadian High Schools: 75%
U.S. High Schools: 2.7
University Transfers: C+
International Bacc. (IB): 28
Bacc. Français: 12/20
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes:
Mapping the Environment
The Climate System
Biodiversity and Ecology
The Natural Environment: Land and Life
Sustainable Forestry
More information
for a complete list of current courses
on the departmental website
feature the latest technology that will give you experience with the tools that professionals use in the field. These include:
A cartography studio
Climate Modelling Lab
Landscape Ecology and Environmental Impact Assessment Lab
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Lab
Forestry Research lab
There is a growing demand for geographers and environmental scientists. Many employers require researchers to conduct environmental assessments for major projects. Employers also seek technical specialists in computer-assisted cartography and GIS. Environmental Geography alumni have established careers in a range of fields including:
Environmental impact assessment
Resource conservation
Environmental consulting
Geographic Information Systems analysis
Water science
Recent graduates have become researchers with the NAFTA Commission for Environmental Cooperation and the Secretariat of the UN Convention on Biodiversity.
.
Curriculum focused on the Environment
New multidisciplinary Environmental Science
An emphasis on techniques and skill building in cartography, computer design, geographic information systems, statistics, field work
Student centred teaching
Strong emphasis on undergraduate teaching
Courses taught by dedicated full and part-time faculty
Courses given in both the day and evening to accommodate students who work
We cater to non-conventional students
Excellent Student Advising Program
Active Geography Student Association
.
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University