Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/admissions/tuition-fees/international-fee-exemptions.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
International fee exemptions
International fee exemptions
International students eligible for Quebec tuition rates
Quebec's
(MEES) has several categories of international students who are exempt from paying international differential tuition fees.
Deadline to apply
The last day of classes in each term is the deadline for you to requesting an exemption and submitting all supporting documents. Requests that are incomplete at the end of the term or are submitted after the term may not be processed for that term. There is no retroactivity.
Where to submit Documents
Documentation may be submitted to the . Please contact
to ensure that your documents have been received.
Who can claim exemptions
The following international students may be exempt from international differential tuition fees:
Diplomats, consular personnel, accredited representatives or civil servants of a foreign country, the United Nations or one of its organizations, an intergovernmental organization to which Canada belongs, and any member of the staff of the above-listed persons working in Canada in an official capacity and who have obtained an attestation issued by .
This attestation is valid for one academic year and must be renewed each year the student attends university;
Required Document: Original letter from the Quebec Protocole Office naming the student and stating the year and session of the exemption.
The spouse and unmarried children of the above-listed persons;
Required Document: Original letter from the Quebec Protocole Office naming the student and stating the year and session of the exemption.
International students whose spouse or parents hold work permits valid for working in Quebec with these conditions:
Case Type must be one of these categories 07, 08, 20, 22, 23, 26, 52 or 53;
the place of employment must be stated and must be in Quebec;
the employer must be named.
For further details and verification, please contact the Office of the Registrar, Room, LB 700,
514-848-2424 ext. 2650 or 3271
Required Documents:
The spouse or parents work permit with the above characteristics;
proof of kinship with the spouse (marriage certificate) or parent (long form birth certificate)
Students who are registered at a university and who have come to Quebec as an exchange student, or as a student participating in a program of cooperation agreed to by the Government of Quebec and which exempts the participants from paying differential fees;
Required Documents: None. Concordia will receive notification directly from the Government of Quebec.
International students who are French citizens (accord France-Québec) and hold a valid French passport;
The Quebec government has reached  with the government of France regarding French citizens who study in Quebec.
French students studying in an undergraduate program leading to an Undergraduate Certificate or Degree will be charged the same tuition as Canadian students from outside Quebec. Our  can provide you with an estimate of what to expect. Under Step 1, choose “Canadian, non-Quebec resident” for the most accurate estimate.
French students studying in a graduate program leading to a Graduate Certificate, Graduate Diploma, Masters or PhD will be charged the same tuition as Quebec residents.
Required Document: Valid French passport (pages with photo, names and expiration date) or Valid French nationality card (both sides).
Here is an outline of how these regulations affects students who are French citizens:
Tuition exemption for French citizens
LEVEL OF STUDIES
PROGRAM
TUITION RATE
UNDERGRADUATE
Bachelor
Canadian rate
Undergraduate Certificate
Undergraduate Independent
Undergraduate Visiting
GRADUATE
Masters
Quebec rate
PhD
Graduate Certificate
Graduate Diploma
Qualifying Program
Canadian rate
Graduate Independent
Graduate Visiting
Notes:
Students who studied at Concordia in Winter 2015 and continue their studies in the same Bachelors program will continue to pay tuition at the Quebec rate, in accordance with the pre-2015 France-Quebec agreement. However if they change to a different Bachelors program then they will pay tuition at the Canadian rate.
Students who are new to Concordia but studied at another Quebec university in the same discipline*1 in Winter 2015 will continue to pay tuition at the Quebec rate, in accordance with the pre-2015 France-Quebec agreement. However if they change to a different Bachelors program then they will pay tuition at the Canadian rate.
*1 The term “discipline” refers to the field of study. — For example, if a French student in a BA Major History in Winter 2015 switches to a BA Honours History in Fall 2015, this student has remained in the same discipline and will continue to pay the Quebec tuition rate until they complete the program. If a French student in a BA Major History in Winter 2015 switches to a BA Major Mathematics in Fall 2015, this student has NOT remained in the same discipline and will pay the Canadian tuition rate until they complete the program.
Students admitted to a Quebec university and whose country has a fee remission agreement with the Quebec Government. Please consult the following Ministry PDF document for a list of eligible countries and international organizations.
Inquiries and applications for an exemption should be made directly to the students' own Ministry of Education prior to leaving their home country. In some cases, when the person is in Canada, it may be possible to apply for an exemption at his or her Embassy or Consulate in Canada or in the United States. For up to date contact information from the different eligible countries, please consult the following Ministry PDF document.
Here is the form that students should fill out and submit to their country's representative:
Required Documents: None. Concordia will receive notification directly from the Government of Quebec.
Students who work for, or who are dependants of individuals employed by one of the international non-governmental organizations outlined in  of the Politique relative aux droits de scolarité exigés des étudiants étrangers par les universités du Québec
Required Document: Original letter from the Quebec Protocole Office naming the student and stating the year and session of the exemption.
Under certain conditions, students who have obtained Convention Refugee status may be eligible for an exemption from the differential fees for International students. Depending on the documentation submitted, they may be eligible to pay either the Quebec tuition rate or the Canadian non-Quebec rate. To pay the Quebec tuition rate, students must submit a CSQ and a document delivered by the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada or Citizenship and Immigration Canada formally recognizing their status of refugee, "protected person" or "person to be protected".
Required Documents: a) CSQ and b) a document delivered by the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada or Citizenship and Immigration Canada formally recognizing their status of refugee, "protected person" or "person to be protected".
Students who are authorized to submit a request for permanent residency status from within Canada and have a certificat de sélection du Québec (CSQ) belonging to one of the following categories:
Regroupement familial (family reunification)
Travailleur: Aide-familiale résidente (live-in caregiver)
Membres de la famille d’un réfugié (members of the family of a refugee)
Cas humanitaire (humanitarian reasons)
I – CSQ (Certificat de sélection du Québec)
The student must present a CSQ containing the following information:
Field 9 must indicate one of the following codes: F1, F8, I5, ID, RA, H*
Details:
F1 or F8 = family reunification. Spouse selected in the category of family reunification and indicating a commitment of sponsorship.
I5 or ID = live-in caregiver.
RA = members of the family of a refugee. Members of a family in Québec who are not themselves recognized as refugees but who are included in a request for permanent residency status of their relative who is a recognized refugee.
H* (H followed by a number from 1 – 6 or a letter from A – O) = humanitarian reasons
Field 17 must indicate one of the following processing centres:
CIC de Hull
CIC de Mississauga – CTD
CIC de Montréal
CIC de Québec
CIC de Sherbrooke
CIC de Trois-Rivières
CTD de Vegreville
These centres are all located in Canada and show that the candidate is authorized to submit his/her request for permanent residency from within Canada.
II - Letter from Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC)
Except for the category RA which only requires submission of a CSQ, students must present a letter from CIC, addressed to the student, which indicates that they are eligible to apply for permanent resident status within Canada under one of the following categories:
Humanitarian cases
Category of spouse or common law partner
Live-in caregivers
Applicants should address documentation to the Office of the Registrar, Government Reporting Unit.
Documentation may be submitted to the .
For further information please call 514-848-2424, ext. 5951
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University