Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/sgs/opportunities/graduate-community-building-fund.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
GRADUATE COMMUNITY BUILDING FUND
The Graduate Community Building Fund provides financial support of up to $5,000 on a competitive basis, towards special projects meeting the criteria listed below. These funds are intended to build an intellectual community within graduate programs, by bringing together students and faculty for events, lectures, symposia, etc. Criteria include:
Potential for community building for graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty members
Impact on students and faculty
Level of student involvement
How does your project align with the university's ?
How will the project benefit your graduate students?
How will the project benefit the graduate community?
These criteria are not meant to be exhaustive, but instead to highlight key elements of funding requests. Interaction outside of the formal academic structures is key; project funds will serve as a means to fill an intellectual gap in the graduate student experience and bring graduate students and faculty members closer together. Although projects are to be student-driven, support from a Graduate Program Director, Departmental Chair, or Research Centre Director is essential.
Projects that form part of a student’s required curriculum or program will not be considered.
Each project must have a student(s) Project Leader and a faculty mentor who is a Graduate Program Director, Departmental Chair, or Research Centre Director.
The faculty mentor must be the applicant.
A faculty mentor can submit multiple projects, however the total annual support received will not exceed $5,000 for an entire year of activities.
The minimum number of graduate students impacted by each project must be 20.
Invited speaker series
Discussion forums or panels with industry or community experts
Graduate alumni event(s)
Graduate networking event(s)
Other activities may also be considered, provided a sufficient rationale is given.
Please note:
Funding will not be granted retroactively – all proposed projects must begin after the application is approved.
Priority will be given to new applicants.
Projects that form part of a student’s required curriculum or program will not be considered.
Travel expenses for speakers or panel members
Hospitality costs
Publicity and promotional materials
Post-event publicity (photos, story, blog, video)
Please note speaker fees will not be considered as an acceptable expense for this fund.
Applications will be judged on originality, potential for community building, funding required in the context of other requests and available budget, the number of students and faculty members who will benefit, as well as feasibility of the project.
Applications must be submitted by email anytime at least eight weeks before the event(s). All applications must include the following:
A
signed by a Graduate Program Director, Departmental Chair, or Research Centre Director and student project leader(s).
A completed  - include any relevant documentation for projected costs.
For guest speakers, a copy of the following documents must be included with submission: list of potential speakers, schedule/order of proceedings.
If your project is approved, funding will be provided via journal transfer.
Nomination materials must be submitted by email to
The School of Graduate Studies gratefully acknowledges the support of The Office of the Provost & Vice-President, Academic Affairs, and The Office of Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies for their contributions towards this initiative.
For information & assistance please contact:
Coordinator, Information and Projects
School of Graduate Studies, GM 930.37
Tel: (514) 848-2424, Ext. 3814
Contact Us
School of Graduate Studies
Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 3800
Fax: 514-848-2812
Monday to Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Location
School of Graduate Studies
1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.,
Montreal, Quebec
Join us
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University