Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2017/11/09/students-montreal-lifestyle.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
Students
When I’m not studying, I’m...
5 Concordia students tell us how they unwind outside of class
Posted on November 9, 2017
|
By: Bipasha Sultana
When the rush of classes, midterms and thesis-writing simmers down, how do students spend their time? Five Concordians share their favourite leisure tips.
What does a typical weekend look like for you?
Ngoma Emeka (MEng student in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering): I’m typically busy during the week, so I like to relax on the weekends. Saturday mornings I’ll go out grocery shopping and spend the afternoon cooking.
In the evening, I hang out with friends one way or another. Sometimes we go to bars, just to sit, chill and talk. We’re all so busy and we hardly see each other during the week, so it’s nice to catch up during the weekend.
Purna Roy (PhD student in the Department of Religions and Cultures): I reserve the weekends for studying and to catch up on cleaning the house. But once that’s out of the way, I go for long walks when I need to connect with nature.
I make it a point to go out to the Plateau area, especially Mont Royal. I get some physical exercise, breathe the fresh air and take in the outdoors.
Cindy Chen (BComm student in the Department of Accountancy): As a business student, I have to network a lot, or go to classes. So I prefer to have a quiet weekend on my own or with my boyfriend or friends.
Shawn Jones (PhD student in the Department of Communication Studies): My weekend is usually spent working on projects and papers during the day so that I can take the night off and lie in bed with a glass of whatever, watching a variety of things on YouTube.
But this weekend I embodied what it means to be a perfect grad student: I went out Friday and Saturday, and then I binge-watched all of Stranger Things!
Charly Plaisir: “I think NDG is one of the best parts of the city.”
What’s your favourite place around Concordia to satisfy a craving?
Charly Plaisir (BSc student in the Department of Biology): I like Hinnawi Bros. I appreciate a nice little meal that’s not too expensive. You know, a good St-Viateur bagel with some chips and hot chocolate.
NE: There’s a dessert place I’ve become rather fond of called Cacao 70.
CC: The Captain’s Boil. Their sauce … I don’t know how they make it or what the recipe is, but it’s just brilliant.
SJ: Near Loyola, it would be Mon Ami Express all the way. Around Sir George Williams, I’d say Café Myriade for coffee. For food, Miss Banh Mi, Mr. Gao and Sammi & Soupe Dumpling. Oh, and Les 3 Brasseurs for beer.
Purna Roy: “I go for long walks when I need to connect with nature.”
What’s your favourite neighborhood to hang out in and what do you love about it?
CP: I think the Notre-Dame-de-Grâce area is one of the best parts of the city because there are beautiful houses, decent architecture and you’re still in a university setting with students around.
PR: I love Outremont and the Mile End, especially the $5 gnocchi! If I just want to go for walks, I take my camera and capture old buildings. Outremont is so beautiful for that.
Shawn Jones: "This weekend I embodied what it means to be a perfect grad student: I went out Friday and Saturday, and then I binge-watched all of Stranger Things!"
What do you do for fun?
CC: Cooking is the most fun thing I do. Sometimes I put my laptop aside, play a YouTube video to practice my French or just play a movie while I’m preparing food.
PR: Lachine Canal picnics. It’s an underrated area. For lazy afternoons, my friends and I will just eat and hang out there.
CP: I have friends who like to watch movies in theatres, or go see actual plays, so I do that once in a while. Recently, I went to the Centaur Theatre in the Old Port and saw Playing with Fire.
Want to know more about life as a Concordian? Check out the Instagram hashtag
to find out what fellow students are up to!
Related Links
Related stories
Related topics
Latest stories
Find an expert
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword
Most popular
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University