Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/faculty.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
Faculty
Leslie Orr, PhD
Professor, Religions and Cultures
Office:
FA Annex,2060 Mackay
Phone:
(514) 848-2424 ext. 2078
Email:
Leslie Orr joined the Department of Religion at Concordia in 1991.
Her
research interests include the religious and social history of medieval
Tamil Nadu; women in pre-colonial South Asia; devadasis; temple
architecture, iconography and epigraphy; the interaction of Hinduism,
Buddhism, Jainism, and
Islam; the history of South Indian sectarian movements; and colonial/ missionary Indology.
Her current research projects include "South Indian Inscriptions: Media, Messages, and Mobilizations" and, with ArchanaVenkatesan, Anna Seastrand, and Crispin Branfoot, “The Navatirupatis and Vaishnava temple-networks in South India.”She is the author of the book Donors, Devotees and Daughters of God: Temple
Women in Medieval Tamilnadu (NY: Oxford University Press, 2000), and co-editor with A. Luithle-Hardenberg and J. Cort of Co-operation, Contribution and Contestation: The Jaina community, British Rule and Occidental Scholarship from the 18th to early 20th century (Berlin: EB Verlag, forthcoming).
Research interests
Religious and social history of medieval
Tamil Nadu
Women in pre-colonial South Asia
Devadasis
Temple
architecture, iconography and epigraphy
Interaction of Hinduism,
Buddhism, Jainism, and
Islam
History of South Indian sectarian movements
Colonial/ missionary Indology
Temple-building, record-keeping, and history-making in Tamil Nadu
Traditions
Buddhism
Hinduism
Jainism
Field areas
Women, Gender, and Sexuality
Selected publications
“Chiefly Queens: Local Royal Women as Temple Patrons in the Late Chola Period” in The Archaeology of Bhakti: Royal Bhakti,Local Bhakti, ed. E.Francis & C. Schmid, Pondichéry: Institut Français de Pondichéry / Ecolefrançaise d'Extrême-Orient, 2016
“Non-Wives and Their Networks in Medieval Tamilnadu,” in Looking Within/ Looking Without: Exploring Households in theSubcontinent through Time, ed. Kumkum Roy. New Delhi: Primus Books, 2014
“The Sacred Landscape of Tamil Saivism: Plotting Place inthe Realm of Devotion,” in  Mapping the Chronology of Bhakti: Milestones, Stepping Stones, and Stumbling Stones, ed. Valérie Gillet. Pondichéry: Institut Français de Pondichéry / Ecole françaised'Extrême-Orient, 2014
"Words for Worship: Tamil and Sanskrit in Medieval Temple Inscriptions," in Bilingual Discourse and Cross-cultural Fertilisation: Sanskrit and Tamil in Mediaeval India, W. Cox and V. Vergiani, ed. Pondichéry: Institut Français de Pondichéry / Ecole française d'Extrême-Orient, 2013.
"The Medieval Murukan: The Place of a God among his Tamil Worshippers," in Hindu Ritual at the Margins: Transformations, Innovations, Reconsiderations, L. Penkower and T. Pintchman, ed. University of South Carolina Press, 2013.
"Orientalists, Missionaries and Jains: The South Indian Story." in
The Madras School of Orientalism: Producing Knowledge in Colonial South India. T.R. Trautmann, ed.
Delhi: Oxford University Press, 2009.
"Cholas,
Pandyas, and 'Imperial Temple Culture' in Medieval Tamilnadu." in The Temple in South Asia. Adam Hardy, ed. London: British Academy, 2007.
"People of the Festival."
Co-authored with Richard H. Davis, in Melanges tantriques a la memoire d'Helene Brunner/Tantric Studies in Memory of Helene Brunner. D. Goodall and A. Padoux, eds. Pondicherry: Ecole francaise d'extreme-orient/Institut francais de
Pondichery, 2007.
"Domesticity and Difference/Women and Men: Religious
Life in Medieval Tamilnadu." in Women's Lives,
Women's Rituals in the Hindu Tradition. Tracy Pintchman, ed. NY:
Oxford University Press, 2007.
"Identity and Divinity:
Boundary-Crossing Goddesses in Medieval Tamilnadu." in
the Journal of the American Academy of Religion
73:1 (2005), 9-43.
Recent graduate seminars and reading courses
Religion and Art in South and Southeast Asia (2015-2016)
Jain and Buddhist Attitudes to Non-violence (2015-16)
"Scripture" in Buddhist and Hindu Traditions (2013-14)
Women and Hinduism (2012-13 and 2014-15)
Cosmologies of India: Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism (2010-11)
Social History of Indian Religions (2009-10)
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University