Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/students/sas/student-requests-forms.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
/
Undergraduate student requests and forms
Undergraduate student requests and forms
The Student Request Form
We review student requests on a case by cases basis. We only make exceptions to the academic regulations under extenuating circumstances.
Student request forms are available from Student Academic Services or you can download the Student Request Form.
You must complete and sign the Student Request Forms and submit it to Student Academic Services. You must also include the following:
Reason for request
Current copy of your student record
Supporting documentation that validate the request
Forms to download
The Student Request Committee
Generally, Student Academic Services respond to student requests. Those needing further consideration will be forwarded to the Student Request Committee. The Student Request Committee is comprised of:
Three faculty members appointed by the Faculty Council
One representative appointed by the Registrar
One student appointed by the Faculty Council
The Associate/Vice-Dean who shall Chair the Student Request Committee
The Committee meets on a monthly basis and decisions are made within thirty (30) working days of receiving the request. Decisions of the Committee are final and are not subject to appeal. The Student Request Committee meets once per month. All requests received are reviewed in order of receipt. Students are normally informed of the committee's decision by mail.
For the next meeting date please contact Ms. Angie De Benedictis at (514) 848-2424 Extension 3050.
All requests must be submitted within a reasonable time frame from the time the circumstance(s) arises unless otherwise the delay is due to unforeseen or extenuating circumstances. If the request is to appeal a decision made by a delegated individual at the departmental level or Student Affairs Office, it will only be considered based on new evidence(s) or serious grounds for sending an appeal.
You may download a copy of the  form or the  form. Prior to submitting your form, please read the items below.
Below are some of the items that are reviewed on a regular basis by the Committee:
Requests for a Supplemental Exam - Such requests will only be considered if a student is a potential graduate. If the request is accepted, student must fill out the Application Form available at the Birks Centre (LB-185) and pay the required fee.
Requests to Late Discontinue (DISC) a Course based on a Deferred Grade - The only time this request will be considered is if a student is transferring to another Faculty or has successfully completed an equivalent course and on the basis of extenuating circumstances backed by supporting document(s).
Requests for a Late Did Not Enter (DNE) or Retrocative Discontinue (DISC) - This request will be considered based on:
extenuating circumstances backed by documentations that clearly support the basis of the request such as medical certificate, death certificate and legal certificates (ex Divorce).
Illness backed by a medical certificate that clearly indicates the date and the severity of the illness and how it affects your studies
In some cases the request could be forwarded to the Tuition Refund Committee.
Requests to modify Conditions for Readmission or Conditional Standing - Under no circumstances will a request for waiving a condition of readmission be considered. In cases of potential graduates a supplemental may be considered to satisfy the condition(s).
Waivers for Conditional Standing will be considered based on a change in GPA as a result of change of grade (ex annual GPA changes from 1.77 to 1.99) or based on substitute recommended by the relevant department.
Contact us
Student Academic Services
Tel: 514-848-2424, ext. 3055/ 3057
Fax: 514-848-8646
Email:
Opening hours
Monday to Friday
9:00 AM - 12:00 PM
1:00 PM -   4:30 PM
Location
Sir George Williams Campus
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 002.139
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University