Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/communication-studies-diploma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Communication Studies (GrDip)
Communication Studies (GrDip)
Graduate Diploma (GrDip)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Graduate Diploma in Communication Studies?
Students experience an intensive introduction to the field of communications for one year, full-time. Because no previous academic training or experience is required - just a Bachelor’s degree in a field other than communication - it is perfect for those seeking a career change or upgrading qualifications. The Graduate Diploma is an interdisciplinary gathering of students from diverse professional backgrounds, offering film, video, intermedia, and sound production, as well as communications and media theory courses. A 3-credit Internship option is available for students finding their own work placement.
Our Graduate Diploma program is ideal for students wanting to develop their media production skills and understanding of communication theory in just one year of full-time study. As a Graduate Diploma student, you will have the opportunity to:
work in hands-on production courses in sound, intermedia and video/film,
take a range of courses related to the theoretical aspects of communication;
have the option of undertaking a hands-on internship opportunity while you study;
learn from a dedicated faculty of distinguished researchers and creators.
Program details
Requirements for the Diploma
Credits. Fully-qualified candidates are required to complete a minimum of 30 credits.
Courses. All candidates are required to take 18 credits in core courses, and 12 credits in elective courses chosen in consultation with the Diploma Program Director. Core courses are COMS 505, COMS 506, COMS 510, COMS 562, COMS 569, and COMS 570.
Admission Requirements. Entry into the program is based on a careful assessment of the individual backgrounds and goals of applicants who possess a bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) with high standing from a recognized institution in a field other than communication. Applicants are required to submit a letter of intent of no more than 600 words outlining their background, academic and work experience, and career goals.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions. The minimum TOEFL iBT score required is 106 (or 623 for TOEFL PBT).
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of Purpose should outline (600 words maximum):
Describe your academic and professional background and how this has led to your decision to apply
Indicate how this program might advance academic and professional goals
Identify courses in our program which are of particular interest to you
Describe what makes you an ideal candidate for this program
Explain why you are choosing this particular program
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Communication Studies
Diploma
Feb. 15
n/a
n/a
Late applications will be considered, at the discretion of the  and subject to space availability.
Courses
All courses are 3-credit, one-term courses unless otherwise stated.
Core Courses (Group A)
COMS 505 Introduction to Communication Theory and History
This seminar offers an introduction to communication theory, by situating media theories and technology in their historical and cultural contexts. Through lectures, discussions, and selected readings from the works of key theorists, this course explores and evaluates major historical and contemporary approaches to communication theories.
COMS 506 In the Field: Methods in Communication Studies and Practice
Prerequisite: COMS 505.
This course offers an introduction to communication research methods and provides an interdisciplinary approach to the interaction of media, technology, culture, and society.
COMS 510 Graduate Diploma Seminar
This full-year course meets bi-weekly to introduce students to the following topics: communication organizations and their public identities, internships and professional development opportunities, emerging trends in communications research methods and practice. Representatives from industry and faculty are invited to discuss their work and future trends in media studies and practice. This course is graded on a pass/fail basis.
COMS 562 Media Production: Sound
This course is designed to provide the student with a basic working knowledge of audio systems, both natural and electronic, to understand the various affective and psychological qualities of sound, and how sound may be structured into imaginative aural form. Lectures and Laboratory: average 6 hours per week.
COMS 569 Media Production: Moving Images
This course provides a foundation in the creative, critical and technical aspects of moving images, including an introduction to non-linear editing software.
Note: Students who have received credit for COMS 567 (Television) or COMS 568 (Film) may not take this course for credit.
COMS 570 Media Production: Intermedia
This course provides an introduction to new and developing digital technologies (primarily computer-based media) through historical, theoretical, and critical perspectives on media, culture, and society and includes basic concepts in software operating systems, communication design and digital media creation. Lectures and Laboratory: average 6 hours per week.
For a listing of elective courses please see the .
Current research areas include:
cultural studies
the nature and conception of audiences
rhetoric
the history of communication
film and documentary production
film and television studies
feminist and postcolonial theory
gender and technology
media and ICT policy
religion and media
international and development communication
visual studies
semiotics of landscape and environment
political communication
alternative and activist media
video advocacy
intermedial art practices
sound art
video and media arts
performance and game studies.
Many students chose to complete an internship for one course credit. More details available .
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5283
Location:
7141 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University