Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/family-life-education.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Family Life Education (Cert)
Family Life Education (Cert)
Certificate (Cert)
Offered by:
,
Why choose the Certificate in Family Life Education?
Acquire the knowledge and skills to help improve the quality of life for families and individuals of all ages. Designed for those who are qualified in their own professions and wish to obtain additional training and practice in group leadership and small group dynamics; interpersonal relations and communications; and designing, facilitating and evaluating programs and workshops.
The aim is to increase knowledge and skills relevant to conducting family life education programs in service agencies, hospitals, schools, companies and religious institutions.
Program details
Program options
Certificate in Family Life Education (30 credits)
The Certificate in Family Life Education is designed for those who, although qualified in their own professions, wish to obtain additional training and practice in:
group leadership and small group dynamics;
interpersonal relations and communications;
designing, facilitating and evaluating programs and workshops; and,
prevention work with individuals and families.
Part-time basis
The courses in the certificate program are tailored to suit the needs of the mature student, and are designed for completion on a part-time basis.
Further academic study
Credits earned in the certificate program may be applied towards the requirements for a Bachelor of Arts degree.
Cegep Students
No specific courses are required beyond a DEC
Additional requirements
All applicants to the Certificate in Family Life Education program are required to submit a Letter of Intent with their Concordia University admission application.  This is your opportunity as a prospective student to express, in writing, why you wish to enter the Department of Applied Human Sciences. The letter should include:
A statement of both your long-term and short-term goals.
Your reasons for choosing Applied Human Sciences.
Your strengths and weaknesses as a candidate.
The experiences you have had that led you to apply (including work and volunteer experience).
Students may transfer into the certificate program up to 12 credits, as approved by the Undergraduate Program Coordinator, earned in an incomplete degree or certificate program or as an independent student, provided they the students are in good standing. The credits that may be so transferred are determined by the university at the point of entry into the program.
Applicants are required to have the following courses as prerequisites for entrance into the program:  AHSC 220, AHSC 230, AHSC 232. Mature entry students require the prerequisite ENGL 212.
Special note:  CEGEP graduates of Techniques de Loisirs (Dawson College), Special Care Counselling (Vanier College, Lasalle College), Social Services (Dawson College) and Correctional Technology (John Abbott College) may have credits applied to their degrees based on their course of study at CEGEP.  Applicants will be informed of any credits awarded in their Offer of Admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 22.000
Canadian High Schools: 74%
U.S. High Schools: 2.7
University Transfers: B-
International Bacc. (IB): 28
Bacc. Français: 12/20
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Program Planning, Design and Evaluation
Sexuality in Human Relations
Family Communication
Leadership in Small Groups
for a complete list of current courses.
Career opportunities
Graduates are encouraged to apply to the following types of employers:
Community and social service agencies
Hospitals
Support group and volunteer organizations
CLSCs
Geriatric centres and residences
Drug and alcohol treatment centres
Schools and after-school programs
Mental health institutions
Women's and family centres
Community recreation centres
Religious organizations
Self-employment as a Family Life Educator is also a career option.
Related programs
Key resources
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University