Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/economics-diploma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Economics (GrDip)
Economics (GrDip)
Graduate Diploma (GrDip)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Graduate Diploma in Economics?
Economists recognize that in order to guide today’s policy makers and business leaders, an advanced knowledge of economic applications and policies is required. Now more than ever, we need critical minds with a broad foundation in the field of economics to study the trade-offs between growth and pollution, public and private medical services, and many other pressing issues that affect our daily lives.
The Graduate Diploma in Economics provides an academically rich learning environment where you will develop a basic understanding of macroeconomic, microeconomic, and econometric theories and methods. Course materials and resources are designed for students who want to pursue their studies at more advanced academic levels and for working professionals interested in economics as a secondary field.
In addition to numerous theoretical and applied research interests in economics, our professors are engaged in various multidisciplinary projects, contributing to publications in statistics, sociology, and medical research, as well as in government policy reports and media opinion pieces.
Program details
Requirements for the Diploma
Credits. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 30 credits. No more than 12 credits can be earned as pro-tanto credit for previous work.
Courses. Credit courses for the diploma program are listed below. Up to 6 credits may be earned in the category of cognate courses (see ). Each student’s program of study must be approved by the Graduate Program Director.
Admission Requirements. To be considered for admission, applicants must hold an undergraduate degree with a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or the equivalent. In addition, they must have earned sufficient credits in economics and basic statistical and mathematical methods to cope with graduate level courses in economics. In exceptional cases, and at the discretion of the Graduate Program Director, an applicant who has not yet satisfied this Arts and Science prerequisite may be admitted, providing that the missing courses are included in the student’s program in addition to the normal course requirements for the diploma. The grading scheme for diploma courses will be the scheme applicable to graduate courses (i.e., the passing grade is B-).
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose should outline (1 to 2 pages):
your goals for enrolling in the program
what makes you a good candidate for the program
your expectations from your studies in the program and
what you plan to achieve in the program.
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Economics
Diploma
Jan. 15
June 1
n/a
Fall: Late applications will be considered until April 1.
Winter: Late applications will be considered until August 1.
Courses typically offered include:
Economic Development: Policy Analysis
Labour Economics
Income Distribution and Economic Inequality
Environmental Economics
Game Theory
for a complete list of current courses.
Members of our research-active faculty are affiliated with the
and the . They have received high honours from the Canada Research Chairs Program, and been awarded the Mongolian Government’s Science Leader Award and the prestigious Marie Curie Fellowship in Research.
Faculty research interests include:
economic development
economic dynamics
econometrics
international trade and finance
financial and monetary economics
computational economics
environmental and natural resources
game theory
industrial organization
information economics
market design
labour economics
experimental economics
public economics
The
aims to promote a stimulating academic and social atmosphere by organizing social events, facilitating seminars and other activities.
Our alumni are highly sought after by financial services companies, intergovernmental organizations, professional services firms and multinational conglomerate corporations. Recent graduates are working as statisticians, account managers, advisors and risk consultants.
Examples of employers where our alumni currently work include:
Best Buy Canada
Cogeco Peer 1
Deloitte
GE Oil & Gas
HELVETAS Swiss Intercooperation
Sun Life Financial
Toronto-Dominion Bank
UNESCO Institute for Statistics
.
Related Programs
Key resources
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3901
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University