Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/future-students/applying-undergraduate.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Applying to undergraduate programs
Applying to undergraduate programs
The Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science of Concordia University welcomes applicants from all parts of Canada, the United States and abroad. In keeping with the general principles accepted by all Québec universities, the policy of Concordia is that admission is open to any qualified applicant, in the program of his or her choice, within the limits of its resources.
For information on how to apply to the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science as well as details on programsadmission requirements, paying for your education, campus resources, student life, and campus visits, please visit the University's official .
Applying from secondary school requires:
Above-average grades, particularly in the areas of math and science
Proof of minimum English-language proficiency (TOEFL, METLAB or IELTS accepted)
High-School Diploma accredited by the Ministry of Education (MEQ) or another internationally-recognized system such as the International Baccalaureate or A-levels
Most students are admitted to the Extended Credit Program (ECP), which is a five-year Engineering degree or four-year Computer Science degree
INTERNAL TRANSFERS
Concordia students in non-ENCS degree programs (e.g., B.A. students) may apply to transfer to an ENCS degree program for the Fall (deadline is March 1) or Winter terms (deadline November 1). Apply online by logging into the Application for Admission section of the .
Independent Students and Certificate program students are not eligible for degree transfers and must submit a new application to the university for either the Fall or Winter terms.
•
Courses available to students in preparation for admission
·        All 200-level courses listed in
and .
·        300-level courses listed in the Certificate in Science and Technology () and the Engineering Core ().
EXTERNAL TRANSFERS
Applicants from other universities who wish to transfer an unfinished degree or complete a second degree at the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science must have achieved GPA as listed below. Ideally, applicants should have completed all prerequisite courses (for Engineering and Computer Systems Calculus I, Linear Algebra, Calculus II, Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism, Introduction to Chemistry; for Computer Science, Calculus I, Linear Algebra, Calculus II).
BEng in Building, Civil, Computer, Electrical, Industrial Engineering
Minimum cumulative GPA of 2.7 (on a 4.00 or 4.30 scale) with an average GPA of 2.7 (B- equivalent) in mathematics/physics courses.
BEng in Software and Mechanical Engineering, BCompSc in Computer Systems
Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.00 or 4.30 scale) with an average GPA of 3.0 (B equivalent) in mathematics/physics courses.
BCompSc in Computer Applications, Computer Applications with Computation Arts, Computer Applications with Math and Stats, Computer Games, Computer Science General Program, Information Systems, Software Systems, Web Services and Applications
Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.00 or 4.30 scale) with an average GPA of 3.0 (B equivalent) in mathematics courses.
BEng in Aerospace and Propulsion, Aerospace Structures and Materials, Avionics and Aerospace Systems
Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.3 (on a 4.00 or 4.30 scale) with an average GPA of 3.3 (B+ equivalent) in mathematics/physics courses.
A
may also be required.
Newly admitted applicants may apply to receive credit for university-level courses completed at a recognized institution, subject to . For students admitted to the Bachelor of Engineering, both the post-secondary institution and the specific program must be accredited either by ,
or
to obtain credit for many courses. Not meeting this condition will limit the number of transfer credits and/or exemptions that can be awarded (excluding the math and science prerequisites).
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 002.139
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University