Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/physics.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Physics (BSc)
Physics (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Physics?
Studying Physics sends you on a journey to the end of the universe or into the centre of an atom. When you study the science of energy and matter, you examine the dynamics of a relationship that has kept great thinkers busy for millennia. Today physicists build lasers, design medical imaging machines and develop applications for nanotechnology. So if you’re ready, sharpen your reasoning skills and open your mind — physics is a discipline that demands as much curiosity as it does strength in mathematics.
As a Physics student, you’ll choose the Physics option, or examine the role of physics in the life sciences in the Biophysics option. You’ll receive a thorough foundation in all branches of physics, including mathematics, classical mechanics, electricity and magnetism, waves and optics, quantum mechanics and modern and theoretical physics.
Graduates leave the program with the knowledge and creative thinking skills required for graduate studies or a career in the pure or life sciences.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Options:
Honours in Physics – Physics option (69 credits)*
Honours in Physics – Biophysics option (69 credits)*
Specialization in Physics – Physics option (66 credits)
Specialization in Physics – Biophysics option (66 credits)
Major in Physics (45 credits)
*Admission is to the major or specializations. Students may apply to honours after 24 program credits.
.
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 22.000, Co-op (CRC): 27
Canadian High Schools: 70%
U.S. High Schools: 2.5
University Transfers: C
International Bacc. (IB): 27
Bacc. Français: 11/20
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes include:
Methods of Theoretical Physics
Electricity and Magnetism
Modern Physics and Relativity
Quantum Mechanics
Membrane Biophysics
for a complete list of current courses,
or
on the Physics website.
Many Physics alumni pursue graduate studies and work at the forefront of technological innovation. They have established careers in a variety of scientific fields that include:
Nanotechnology
Medical imaging and radiation treatment
Energy
Telecommunications
Laser and satellite design
.
The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:
Perform spectroscopy work
Take measurements of solar cells
Develop software or computer interfacing protocols
Develop models to predict the behaviour of lasers and optics systems
Test survey hypotheses
Students interested in applying for the Physics co-op should refer to  where a full description of the admission requirements is provided.
Academic content is very similar to that of the regular programs, with some specific recommendations for courses to improve the students' job skills. While it is hoped that most of the positions will be in the Montreal area, students must be prepared to work in other parts of Canada.
Students are supervised personally and must meet the requirements specified by the Faculty of Arts and Science and the Institute for Co-operative Education in order to continue their studies in the co-op format.
Liaison between the student, the employers, and the Institute for Co-operative Education is provided by the Physics co-op committee, which includes the student's advisors.
.
Key programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University