Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/student-life/alumni.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Alumni
Alumni
As a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering & Computer Science, you are a member of a network of more than 25,675 alumni throughout the world.
Keep in touch
Update your latest contact details, including professional information, so you never miss another story or alumni event!
Join your alumni community online!
Visit us
Walk down memory lane or discover one of Concordia's new spaces.
We'd be happy to show you around the faculty's facilities on Sir George Williams campus. Contact:
Safety first! Alumni prepare to view the Building Engineering Solar Simulator at Homecoming.
Find Concordia near you
Concordia has alumni chapters in Montreal and around the world to serve its more than 200,000 alumni. To connect with other grads from your department, contact: .
.
Learn about the .
Contact:
Amir Asif (centre) with Zach Urlocker, BCompSc 84 (left) and Ben Riga, BCompSc 98 (right).
Take pride
Learn about our notable leaders, prominent researchers, entrepreneurs, artists, athletes and thinkers at .
Discover what we achieved first in Montreal, Quebec, Canada and the world at .
Read more .
PhD student Navid Sharifi looks to the lotus leaf for clues to prevent ice from forming on everyday structures.
Go beyond
Concordia’s ability to deliver innovative, impactful and beyond-expectations experiences requires the generosity of our alumni, friends and partners.
For more information on giving options or for specific questions about making a gift, please contact .
#CUalumni #CUgiving
Big Thinking in Engineering & Computer Science
An interdisciplinary approach at the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science leads to practical solutions for multi-faceted problems.
Join us online
Contact us
Michelle Miatello
Principal Director of Development
Engineering and Computer Science
Michael Steeves
Development Officer
Engineering and Computer Science
Kristina Ramsay
Alumni Officer, Faculty Liaison
Advancement and alumni Relations
Samia Aladas
Assistant Prospect Researcher
Engineering and Computer Science
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 002.139
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University