Concordia University
http://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/education-phd.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Education (PhD)
Education (PhD)
Doctorate (PhD)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Doctorate in Education?
Explore links between disciplinary subfields that span early childhood and adult education. Acquire hands-on research skill development that will strengthen your understanding of underlying educational philosophies and propel your research in interdisciplinary ways.
The PhD in Education offers an academically rich learning environment where you will gain advanced knowledge of both qualitative and quantitative methods in educational research. Our acclaimed
will expose you to four major subfields, encompassing applied linguistics, child studies, educational studies and educational technology, that provide a versatile foundation for you to consider research across disciplines and orientations.
Take advantage of resources that are for the exclusive use of graduate students at our state-of-the-art . Benefit from your own research space, as well as privileged access to computer workstations and a media development lab.
With financial support from the department and university, our students have been able to present their research at international conferences in Amsterdam, Austria, Brazil, Cyprus, Denmark, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Singapore, Spain and Uruguay. Along with a growing number of joint publications between students and faculty, you will be joining a cohort that is immediately contributing to cutting edge educational research and the civic life of the department.
Program Details
Credits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits.
Residence. The minimum period of residence is two years (6 terms) of full-time study beyond the master’s degree, or the equivalent in part-time study. A minimum of one year of full-time study is highly recommended.
Orientation. Each candidate is assigned an interim research supervisor and a supervisory committee. This interim supervisory committee consists of three members of the faculty, including a research supervisor. This supervisory committee advises the student on courses to take, including prerequisite courses where necessary (to be determined no later than the first two weeks of the student’s first term), and arranges for the comprehensive examination. At this time the membership of the student’s interim committee is replaced by a dissertation committee of the student's choice.
Courses. Each candidate is required to complete the following:
EDUC 806 – Quantitative Methods (3 credits)
EDUC 807 – Qualitative Methods (3 credits)
EDUC 808 – Reporting Research (3 credits)
EDUC 809 – Advanced Issues in Education (3 credits)
9 credits of elective courses
EDUC 890 – Comprehensive Examination (12 credits)
Each candidate must successfully complete EDUC 890 before being admitted to candidacy for the degree. The comprehensive consists of a written and oral examination that tests the candidate on both general and area specific research. After successfully completing the comprehensive examination, the student is admitted to candidacy for the degree.
EDUC 891 – Doctoral Proposal (9 credits)
Note: the proposal is accepted only after the student is admitted to candidacy.
EDUC 895 – Doctoral Dissertation (48 credits).
A doctoral thesis is expected to make an original contribution to knowledge, and be presented in acceptable literary form.
Admission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission is a Master of Arts degree in Education, Applied Linguistics, Child Studies, Educational Studies, or Educational Technology, with high standing, from an accredited university. Applicants with a Master’s degree in a related field or discipline, such as psychology, sociology, anthropology, adult education, and human resource development, are considered. Applicants from other disciplines might be offered conditional admission which may include fulfilling prerequisite courses.
Prior to applying, please
to request the PhD Education program booklet.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose outlining the primary area or field of concentration and research goals
Scholarly writing sample, such as a chapter from an MA thesis or a research paper
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Note: Applicants to the PhD in Education do not choose a supervisor as part of the application process.  Instead, we assign an interim supervisor and committee to accepted students, who guide the student through their comprehensive exams. At that point—with full knowledge of our faculty—students choose a dissertation committee and supervisor.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Education
PhD
Jan. 15*
Sept. 15
n/a
*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.
Courses typically offered include:
Quantitative Methods
Qualitative Methods
Reporting Research
Advanced Issues in Education
for a complete list of current courses.
Teaching assistantships are available and awarded to students on a competitive basis. Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research initiatives.
Graduate students exhibiting strong instructional skills may also be eligible to teach a limited number of undergraduate courses. These positions are also awarded on a competitive basis.
Other awards available through the Faculty of Arts and Science include:
Concordia Merit Scholarship
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship
Concordia International Tuition Award of Excellence
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award
John W. O'Brien Graduate Fellowship
Clara Strozyk Scholarship
Conference Travel Awards
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.
Please also consult Concordia’s  page and .
Our
are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. They are well known for their strong research profiles that inform their teaching and afford graduate students the opportunity to work on cutting edge research.
interests include:
Adult Education: staff development; adult learning; literacy; learning in the workplace; professional development; self-directed learning; and human relations training.
Applied Linguistics: acquisition of second-language phonology; second language literacy; pedagogical grammar; social issues in bilingualism; second language vocabulary and pronunciation; pedagogy for second language learning; and psycholinguistics of bilingualism.
Child Studies: special education; social-emotional development; play; day care environment and curriculum; familyschool partnerships; school reform; literacy; numeracy; educational testing; children’s health and well-being; and popular culture.
Educational Studies: gender issues; adult education; diversity; policies and practices; school reform; moral education; democratic education; and intercultural education.
Educational Technology: computer-based learning; computer-supported collaborative learning; distance learning; classroom processes; human performance technology applications; program evaluation; educational evaluation and new technologies; corporate applications of educational technology; systemic modeling of educational systems; learning styles and strategies; and multimedia research and development.
Review an inspiring list of .
Doctoral students have also been published in a multitude of prestigious journals, including the Canadian Journal of Education, the Canadian Review of Art Education, College Quarterly, the Journal of Cognition and Development, and the Mathematics Education Research Journal.
The
(DOEIGSA) supports initiatives that encourage student well-being in the department and the university at large. The DOEIGSA aims to engage students in social issues, inside and outside the university, which are pertinent to education.
The Graduate Symposium in the Department of Education (GSDE) is an annual event that invites students across Canada to present their research. The GSDE is a student-run conference and offers you the opportunity to learn more about grant applications and event planning.
are highly sought after by school boards, daycares, government, health and social agencies, human resource departments, and the business community, as well as other universities and educational institutions. Recent graduates can be found teaching at Champlain College, Dawson College, the Université du Québec à Montréal, the University of Alberta and Temple University.
Many graduates have also found great success working for development agencies and non-profit organizations, as well as in educational gaming, aerospace and transportation, information and engineering, and research and technology. Several alumni have founded and operate private preschools.
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2034
Location:
1610 Ste-Catherine Street W.,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 2S2
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University