Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/social-cultural-phd.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Social and Cultural Analysis (PhD)
Social and Cultural Analysis (PhD)
Doctorate (PhD)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Doctorate in Social and Cultural Analysis?
Carry out research that will enable you to address social inequities and dysfunctions. Perform cutting-edge fieldwork that raises questions about poverty, justice and access in diverse human societies around the world.
The PhD in Social and Cultural Analysis provides a unique bi-disciplinary structure where you will engage in multiple methodological approaches in anthropology and sociology. Studying alongside a diverse cohort of students, you will develop an ability to initiate independent research projects while cultivating an expertise in one of the following thematic specializations:
Globalization
Social inclusion and exclusion
Perception and representation
Justice and social ethics
Our distinguished
include Canada and Concordia University Research Chairs, as well as Quebec’s first-ever . Active in multiple , such as the newly launched , our faculty also act as co-ordinators at multiple research networks like the Masculinity Research Network, Sex Trade Advocacy and Research, and the Concordia Risk Studies Network.
Benefit from diverse Montreal neighbourhoods that provide good grounds to conduct anthropological and sociological fieldwork. The city is home to various cultural communities and organizations, making it an ideal location for you to work with certain groups and their members.
Program Details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 90 credits.
Required Courses (12 credits). Students are required to take SOAN 800 (6 credits), 820 (3 credits) and 840 (3 credits).
Elective Courses (6 credits). Students may choose two 3-credit courses from the list below.Note: Doctoral students will be asked to perform at a higher level as leaders in class discussions and will be given more in-depth work in the form of papers and oral presentations.
Anthropology
ANTH 600 Identity and Difference
ANTH 601 World Anthropologies
ANTH 610 Ethnographic Research and Ethics
ANTH 620 Writing Methods in Inter-Cultural Communication
ANTH 630 New Directions in Anthropological Research
ANTH 640 Special Topics I
ANTH 641 Special Topics II
Sociology
SOCI 602 Issues in Classical Sociological Theory
SOCI 603 Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory
SOCI 612 Designing Sociological Research
SOCI 613 Techniques of Sociological Research
SOCI 620 Population and Society
SOCI 622 Studies in Race and Ethnicity
SOCI 625 Sociology of Culture
SOCI 626 North American Societies
SOCI 627 Social Movements and Social Change
SOCI 632 Sociology of the Family
SOCI 633 Sociology of Knowledge
SOCI 635 Gender Studies
SOCI 637 Development
SOCI 638 The City
SOCI 639 Social Problems
SOCI 640 Community Studies
SOCI 642 Studies in Governance
SOCI 644 Sociology of the Body
SOCI 645 Sociology of Men
SOCI 646 Globalization
SOCI 647 Democracy and Citizenship
SOCI 648 Health, Illness and Medicine
SOCI 649 Media and Communication
SOCI 652 Self and Subjectivity
SOCI 653 Intellectual Biography
Comprehensive Examinations (12 credits). All candidates are required to write two 6-credit comprehensive exams (SOAN 850 and 860). The topics for these exams are set at the end of the first year and the exams completed within the second year of the program. Each comprehensive exam is assessed by a committee of three faculty members drawn from the two disciplines, and formed in consultation with the Graduate Program Director.
Thesis Proposal (3 credits). A candidate who has passed the comprehensive examinations must then submit a thesis proposal to the Graduate Program Director and the thesis committee (selected in consultation with the GPD). This proposal will be explained to, and defended before the thesis committee. If accepted, this constitutes the completion of SOAN 870 (3 credits).
Thesis (57 credits). The candidate who has passed the PhD comprehensive examinations and the thesis proposal will proceed to the final requirement. The thesis is expected to make an original contribution to knowledge, to be based on primary sources and to be presented in an acceptable literary form. The thesis will demonstrate knowledge of theories and methods associated with each discipline. The thesis will normally be no more than 400 pages in length in total. Subject to the approval of the GPD and the thesis committee, a component of the thesis can take the form of a film or CD Rom.
Language Requirement. Given that the bulk of the literature in the two disciplines is written in English and French, reading assignments are given in both languages. Students are required to work towards reading proficiency very quickly. Upon completion of their coursework, students are required to demonstrate reading proficiency in both languages before being permitted to begin the thesis portion of their program. The proficiency level is verified through the administration of a translation test at the end of the coursework period.
In addition, students whose research topic requires the knowledge of a third language will be expected to take the necessary courses and demonstrate proficiency in that language before embarking on their research.
Admission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission to the PhD in Social and Cultural Analysis is a Master of/Magisteriate in Arts in sociology or in anthropology, with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.00, from a recognized university. A superior academic record and strong references are both essential. The intended area of research is also a factor as admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate research supervisor. Applicants who do not have the required background in either one of the disciplines will be required to take courses (undergraduate or graduate) before being admitted into the program. The number of credits required will vary depending on the student’s personal background but will be limited to no more than 24 credits.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
(from academic referees and submitted in a sealed and signed envelope) with
Statement of Purpose (five pages double spaced plus bibliography) should include:
Your subject of interest,
The question which you will pose,
The methods that you will use,
A short presentation of relevant debates and theoretical engagements with which your work will correspond and use,
The name of a potential supervisor whose research area complements your own, and with whom you have communicated and would like to work
Sample of writing
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Social and Cultural Analysis
PhD
Jan. 15*
n/a
n/a
*January 15 is the deadline for applicants who wish to be considered for funding. Applicants who do not require funding must submit applications by April 1. It is recommended that International students apply by March 15th to allow adequate time to obtain study permits.
Courses typically offered include:
General Seminar
Professional Development
Identity and Difference
Issues in Classical Sociological Theory
for a complete list of current courses.
All doctoral students will be considered for a teaching assistantship, valued at approximately $3,200 per semester. Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research initiatives.
Doctoral students who have completed their comprehensive exams and defended their thesis proposal are also eligible to teach undergraduate courses in their area(s) of expertise.
The Cary Boucock Memorial Award provides financial support for students engaged in research travel. Conference travel funding is also available through the department and faculty.
Successful applicants are automatically considered for Entrance Awards and Open Competition Awards.  Please consult Concordia’s  page, specific funding provided by the
and .
Faculty members are involved with research initiatives at the local, national and international levels. As world experts in a variety of emerging and established fields, their findings are well represented in a number of .
Their research interests include:
Community, Migration, Travel, Transnational links, Elites, Youth
Feminisms, Ethnography, Histories of Anthropology
Imperialism, Neoliberalism, Political Anthropology
Environment and Infrastructure, Politics, Bureaucracy
Legal Anthropology, Muslim Feminisms
The Body and Senses, Law and Society, Culture and Commerce, Art and Aesthetics
Creolization, Language and Culture, Food
Indigenous studies, ethnography, participatory research
State Violence, Racialization, Citizenship
Political Economy, Marxist Theory, Cultural and Critical Theory
Family, Suicide, Sociological Theory, Modernity
Emotions, morality, suffering and wellbeing, culture
Risk, Surveillance, Social Justice
Demography, History of Quebec/Canadian Population, Family
Food and Sustainability, Social Economy, World-System Studies
Youth, Addictive Behaviours, Population Health
Self, Body, Gender, Sexuality, Popular Media, Cultural Theory
Environmental governance and neoliberalism; Eco-citizenry; Post-humanism
Social and cultural theory, Journalism and media studies
Medicine, Gender, Racialization
Sex Industry, Mixed Methodologies, Social Justice, Policy Research
Digital Culture, Science and Technology, Social Theory
Social theory, Deviance, Sociology of Law
Men, Bodies, Senses
Quebec, Social Movements, Political Sociology,
Sociology of the economy, social and alternative economies
Review an inspiring list of
and read about some of our .
Doctoral students have also been published in a multitude of peer-reviewed journals, including Anthropology in Action, Anthropologica, Anthropologie et Sociétés, and Social Anthropology.
The
(SAGSA) represents the collective interests and promotes the general welfare of graduate students in the department.
SAGSA also hosts an annual interdisciplinary student conference in March. Previous editions have seen students from across Quebec and Canada present their research and foster dialogue across disciplines. Keynote speakers from past conferences have included Dr. Charmaine A. Nelson, Dr. Alexandrine Boudreault-Fournier and Dr. Daniel Dagenais.
Our alumni are well positioned to find success in a wide range of professional careers in government statistics, human resources, development work, international relations, media and research.
Recent graduates have received prestigious postdoctoral fellowships from institutions around the world. Their research areas include:
Social, political and cultural impact of globalization
Sex work
Comparative urban cultures
Men and masculinities
Digital culture and video games
Citizenship and transculturalism
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2161
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University