Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/student-life.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
Student life
Student life
Start or join a student group to gain skills, make friends and explore your interests. Help run a gallery, journal or festival. There are limitless ways to get the most out of your student experience beyond the classroom.
VAV Gallery
Concordia’s premier student-run gallery
Unique among universities in Canada, the VAV Gallery programs major shows in all Fine Arts disciplines on a biweekly basis.
Art Matters Festival
A showcase for student artists throughout the city
The two-week festival takes place in off-campus galleries and venues throughout Montreal. During the rest of the year, Art Matters also sponsors workshops, artist talks and parties.
J. R. Harper Memorial Reading Room
A collection of resources on art, art criticism and cultural theory
This reference facility also provides archival services to students and student groups, and offers access to computer workstations, printers and scanners.
Portfolio
A website for all Fine Arts students to create profiles
This free, student-funded online gallery allows Concordia undergraduates to display their work to the Concordia community and beyond in an accessible and professional setting.
Fine Arts Student Alliance (FASA)
FASA offers a variety of services to Fine Arts students, organizes diverse social events and administers all Fine Arts clubs. FASA also issues special project grants twice per year and provides operational funding to student clubs and organizations.
Journals
Fine Arts students publish several journals:
(Art Education)
(CUJAH)
(Film Studies, Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema)
Office of Student Relations
Learn more about Fine Arts student life activities. We strive to cultivate links between the wider student population and extra-curricular student-run projects, like , Café X,
and the
The Office of Student Relations is the link between all student-run projects, the Dean’s Office and the wider university community. Whether you are interested in arts-related governance, gallery direction, festival production, resource centre management and non-profit arts related businesses we are here to help ensure the success of our student-run organizations.
The Student Relations coordinator also oversees Travel Grants to Undergraduate Students, a fund for department-organized exhibitions of student work
Contact us
Tel: 514-848-2424 ext. 4701
Join the conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 2.705
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University