Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/western-society-culture.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Western Society and Culture (BA)
Western Society and Culture (BA)
Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Offered by:
,
Why study Western Society and Culture?
A liberal arts education equips you for life. The Western Society and Culture program teaches you to think critically, enhance your communication skills and become a more resourceful, innovative and self-confident person.
You’ll join a small community of scholars to study the great works of Western Civilization. Our carefully constructed seminars guide you through the foundations and development of Western civilization and culture.
We aim to foster an intimate intellectual community by organizing many stimulating events, projects and trips. You’ll attend coffee hour as well as formal dinners, put on talent shows, publish a journal of academic and creative work and travel to New York or Europe to visit museums and galleries.
The Major in Western Society and Culture is designed so you may pursue our honours program. It can also be easily combined with another arts or science major. Either way, you will take part in a stimulating study of human nature and society. We guarantee this program will challenge your worldview and provoke critical reflection on where you stand.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three to four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations:
Honours in Western Society and Culture* (60 credits)
Major in Western Society and Culture (42 credits)
Minor in Western Society and Culture (30 credits)
*Admission is to the major. Students may apply for a transfer to honours after completing 24 program credits.
Cegep Students
No specific courses are required beyond a DEC
Additonal Requirements
Interview (Major, Minor)
Interview & Letter of intent (Honours)
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): DEC
Canadian High Schools: 70%
U.S. High Schools: 2.5
University Transfers: C
International Bacc. (IB): 27
Bacc. Français: 11/20
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
The Western Society and Culture program guides students through the foundations and development of Western civilization and culture. Our three-year Core Curriculum introduces you to the major books and ideas in the humanities and social sciences, the visual arts and music, and science. The study of these texts constitutes both an excellent undergraduate education and an outstanding foundation for a wide variety of academic and professional pursuits.
The Core Curriculum consists of these courses:
LBCL 291 Structure and Dynamics of Western Civilization I
LBCL 292 Modes of Expression and Interpretation I
LBCL 295 History of Art
LBCL 391 Structure and Dynamics of Western Civilization II
LBCL 393 Modes of Expression and Interpretation II
LBCL 390 or LBCL 392 History of Music
LBCL 394 or LBCL 395 History of Science
LBCL 490 The Twentieth Century: Forms, Themes, Critiques
For more information on the Core Curriculum or course descriptions, please consult the .
Some courses may be .
Our graduates have gone on to a variety of academic careers in teaching and research and have won scholarships for graduate study at the world’s most prestigious universities. Our program also opens up many career paths in art, law, politics, the media, humanitarian work, entrepreneurship and culture, including:
Education
Writing
Advertising
Business communications
Publishing
Read more about the
our graduates have taken.
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University