Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/facilities/performing-arts.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Performance facilities
Performance facilities
The Faculty of Fine Arts is a hub of creative energy. Professional studios, equipment and venues allow students to grace the stage in music, dance and theatre performances throughout the academic year.
Facilities overview
Music facilities
musical spaces designed by an acoustician
"smart" classrooms with networked multimedia, mixing and playback capabilities
electroacoustic studios, including an octophonic studio
keyboard lab featuring 16 keyboards
state-of-the-art soundproof practice modules
27 new pianos, including six concert grands
Contemporary Dance facilities
two standard dance studios with sprung floors
large dance studio with full lighting grid (Black Box)
video-recording equipment in each dance studio
state-of-the-art projection and integrated sound systems in each dance studio
Theatre facilities
four acting studios with sprung floors and state-of-the-art projection and integrated sound systems (two with lighting grids)
two design classrooms, as well as a lighting lab
new costume shop
new costume storage space and a dye lab
closer proximity to the newly renovated D.B. Clarke Theatre
Visit our performance venues
Cazalet Theatre
An intimate, flexible-seating black box theatre.
D.B. Clarke Theatre
A fully equipped, 387-seat proscenium theatre downtown Montreal.
F.C. Smith Auditorium
An open-concept stage with 280 seats at the Loyola campus.
Oscar Peterson Concert Hall
One of the faculty's principal performing arts venues, named for the late, Montreal jazz pianist.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 2.705
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University