Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/environmental-science.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Environmental Science (BSc)
Environmental Science (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Environmental Science?
Tackle some of the most important issues we face today: climate change, natural resource management and sustainability. Examine the endangerment of species, natural systems and the effect of pollution. As an Environmental Science student, you’ll follow a path where geography, geology, biology, chemistry, computer science and engineering intersect.
Through labs, lectures and projects, you’ll learn to assess the impact of human activity on natural cycles and landforms. You can choose to apply your skills during an internship or field research. You’ll also:
Study the causes and consequences of environmental change
Learn to gather and interpret statistical data
Acquire technical knowledge of computerized mapping and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Learn to develop effective and efficient policies for environmental management
Choose to specialize in Ecology, Hydrosphere or Geoscience
After graduation, your knowledge and technical skills will prepare you for a career in research.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations
Honours in Environmental Science (69 credits)
Specialization in Environmental Science (69 credits)
Academic streams
Once students are admitted, they may choose from one of three academic study streams:
More information
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 23.000 (Honours: 28.000)
Canadian High Schools: 75% (Honours: 85%)
U.S. High Schools: 2.7 (Honours: 3.3)
University Transfers: C+ (Honours: B+)
International Bacc. (IB): 28 (Honours: 33)
Bacc. Français: 12/20 (Honours: 14/20)
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes:
Environment and Society
The Climate System
Resource Analysis and Management
Environmental Impact Assessment
Geographic Information Systems
More information
for a complete list of current courses
on the departmental website.
feature the latest technology that will give you experience with the tools that professionals use in the field. These include:
A cartography studio
Climate Modelling Lab
Landscape Ecology and Environmental Impact Assessment Lab
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Lab
Forestry Research lab
There is a growing demand for geographers and environmental scientists. Many employers require researchers to conduct environmental assessments for major projects, or seek technical specialists in computer-assisted cartography and GIS. Environmental Science alumni have established careers in a range of fields including:
Environmental impact assessment
Resource conservation
Environmental consultant
Geographic Information Systems analyst
Water scientist
Recent graduates have become researchers with the NAFTA Commission for Environmental Co-operation and the Secretariat for the UN Convention on Biodiversity.
.
Truly multi-disciplinary education that provides the sound scientific knowledge essential to work in environmental disciplines
High-quality teaching and academic support
Modern computing facilities accessible to all undergraduates
Highly specialized research equipment for student projects
.
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University