Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/research/funding-resources.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Research funding & resources
Research funding & resources
The Research Office assists the Office of the Dean with the management of internal funding programs, and the review of external research grant applications and contracts for Faculty approval. Faculty members can find information on the following funding programs in this area of the website.
Start-up Funds
Start-up funds are provided by the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science to new ENCS faculty members. The funds must normally be spent within 2 fiscal years.
Funds are provided by the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and
Computer Science to new ENCS faculty members.
The level of funding is
subject to the offer made by the Dean at the time of the new faculty
member's appointment.
The funds must normally be spent within 2 fiscal years. The grant
start
date cannot begin prior to the beginning of the faculty member’s
appointment. The end date is generally April 30 of the fiscal year
following the faculty member’s appointment.
Travel: No more than 10% of the total grant may be spent on travel.
Computer: A computer is provided for the faculty member’s office by the AITS unit of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science. The cost of this computer must be included in the start-up budget.
Other Eligible expenses: the use of funds guidelines for Start-Up Funds Research Grant must follow the NSERC Use of Grant Funds guidelines pertaining to Discovery Grants. Please refer to the
“”.
A minimum of 50% of the total grant funds must be spent by the end of the first fiscal year. In light of this, only lesser of half or the actual balance of funds at the end of the first fiscal year, can be carried forward to the second fiscal year. The second fiscal year generally begins May 1. The grant end date coincides with the University's fiscal year-end, i.e. April 30. Any unspent funds remaining in the start-up fund at the end of the grant will be returned to the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science general revenues fund.
Start-Up Funds grant applications must include the following information:
A completed and signed
(should not exceed 5 pages)
Proposed budget: should not exceed the approved amount over 2 fiscal years; proposed start and end dates of the budget should be indicated; expense categories should be similar to those of an NSERC discovery grant; and salary/student bursaries expenses should be listed separately by type of employee (i.e. Ph.D. student, Master’s student, postdoctoral fellow, etc.)
CV not required
The application should be forwarded to the attention of:
Ms. Georgia Michalakopoulos, Research Officer
Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, EV002.215
Tel. 514-848-2424 ext. 4036
Fax 514-848-4509
Email:
Research proposal is reviewed by the Dean for decision
Notification of decision is communicated to the faculty member by the Research Officer
Start-up grants that are awarded:
funds are released once any applicable certification requirements are met
a notification of internal award is issued to the grantee
the Restricted Funds unit of Financial Services will forward a
Banner Fund number to the faculty member once an account is opened
Expenditures charged to this fund should conform to the budget that is approved by the Dean.
Any proposed changes to the budget must receive prior approval
from the Dean. Requests for changes to the budget must be submitted to
Financial Controller, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science.
All salary/bursary expenses must be submitted to Research Office
(EV2-139) and all non-salary expenses must be submitted to the Budget
Office (EV2-219) of the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science for
approval. The ENCS Budget Office is responsible for the financial
administration of the Start-Up Funds.
Updated August 4, 2009.The guidelines apply to new start-up grants offered beginning in fiscal 2009-2010.
External Funding
There are several opportunities for Engineering and Computer Science Faculty members to gain funding from external sources.
Primary investigators can find out about funding sources from the following:
ENCS Research Facilitator (RF), who works in conjunction with the central Office of Research (OOR). Learn more about the ENCS Research Facilitator on the
(login required).
For Internal and External Funding Opportunities managed through the Office of Research please visit the .
For information and assistance with external Research Grant Programs, kindly contact Dr. Lauren Segall, Research Facilitator for the Faculty by phone at 514-848-2424 ext. 3263 or via email at .
For internal Research Grant Programs, kindly contact Georgia Michalakopoulos, Research Officer for the Faculty by phone at 514-848-2424 ext. 4036 or via email at .
Information for faculty & staff
Faculty and staff can
(login required):
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 002.139
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University