Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
Research
Research
Advancing knowledge through excellence in intellectual pursuit is at the core of everything we do. Our organizational culture inspires quality research and scholarship across a wide spectrum, and values the importance of transferring knowledge to society in all its forms.
Funding
Find detailed information about internal and external funding opportunities, awards, guides and forms are available in our funding section.
Research tools
The Research Databases Search Tool
Provides quick access to resource materials relevant to your field of study. We have compiled them based on our knowledge of JMSB research activities.
Tomorrow
Nov. 21
6 p.m. — 7 p.m.
Upcoming
Nov. 27
6 p.m. — 7:30 p.m.
Upcoming
Nov. 28
6 p.m. — 8 p.m.
Position announcements:
The John Molson School of Business is seeking qualified applicants for one tenure-track position and one limited term appointment.
Graduate research programs
PhD programs
JMSB has offered a joint doctoral program since 1976 in affiliation with four other established Montreal business schools.
MSc programs
Launched in 1989 as a result of market demand for specialists capable of advanced analytical work, research and consultancy. These programs prepare students for specialized managerial and administrative careers in the private and public sectors.
Annual Graduate Research Exposition
The AGRE showcases the latest research of JMSB’s PhD and MSc students though a poster exhibition.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University