Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/about/awards.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Awards
Awards
JMSB awards recognize and honour excellence in business, research, teaching, scholarship and community engagement. Explore our many awards in this section.
Recognizing business excellence:
Awards of Distinction
The Awards of Distinction is an initiative that was put forward by the late Honorable Pierre Sévigny P.C., O.C., in 1987, topublicly honour business excellence. It has since evolved into an annual awards ceremony that is regularly attended by hundreds of guests from the business and university community.
Fuller Landau Family Business Awards
The Fuller Landau Family Business Awards aim to honor and celebrate the most progressive privately-held family enterprises of Québec who have stimulated economic growth and excelled in their contributions to the community. The awards created by Fuller Landau LLP and Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business were first awarded in May 2011.
Awards for the JMSB community
Dean's Awards
The John Molson School of Business Dean's awards inaugurated during the 2007 - 2008 academic year are awarded annually in the following three categories:
Dean’s Award for Distinguished Scholarship
Dean’s Award for Teaching Excellence
Dean’s Staff Recognition Award
2014 Petro-Canada Young Innovator Award
The Petro-Canada Young Innovator Awards Program (PCYIAP) was developed to recognize outstanding emerging researchers whose work is particularly innovative and contributes significantly to the learning environment of the university and potentially to society at large. Two awards valued at $10,000 each will be handed out.
2014 University Research Awards
The University Research Awards are granted to recognize research or creative achievements. Full-time faculty members in tenure-track or tenured positions are eligible to apply. Four awards valued at $5000 each will be handed out.
Dean's List
The Dean's List recognizes students who achieved a minimum annual GPA of 3.75 after completing a minimum of 24 credits or a minimum of 12 credits and two co-op work terms during the academic year.
Fuller Landau Best Student Paper Award
These awards encourage and reward undergraduate students for developing cases on entrepreneurial family enterprises in Quebec. Two awards of $2,250 will be given to the two best submissions.
Concordia-wide awards
Alumni Recognition Awards
The Concordia University Advancement & Alumni (CUAA) Alumni Recognition Awards honour the valuable contributions of alumni, students, friends and teaching staff of Concordia University and its founding institutions, Loyola College and Sir George Williams University.
Read more.
Concordia Sustainability Awards
The Sustainability Champions Award Gala is held annually by the members of the Concordia Sustainability Hub to demonstrate Concordia’s collective gratitude for ambassadors of change. It strives to celebrate those involved in sustainability endeavours at Concordia, to encourage dialogue and collaboration among stakeholders, and to raise the overall profile of sustainability on campus.
.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University