Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/artsci/2016/12/07/fas-celebrates-excellence0.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
Faculty of Arts and Science
FAS celebrates excellence
2016 awards honoured staff, faculty
Posted on December 7, 2016
|
By: Elisabeth Faure
For the second year in a row, the
(FAS) celebrated an expanded evening of awards to highlight excellence in the Faculty.
“We’ve traditionally held these awards to celebrate exceptional service from staff and Faculty,” says FAS Dean André Roy. “But last year, we thought it would be a good opportunity to honour other achievements within our Faculty – hence, the ‘Awards to Honour Excellence’ were born.”
Honorees included all new FAS research chairs, as well as awards for distinguished scholarship and other honours. Department of Psychology Professor
was honoured
of the Prix ACFAS Thérèse Gouin-Décarie.
“The ACFAS award is a source of great pride for me and my students. It also has a ‘sentimental’ value for me as it is named after my mentor, Professor Thérèse Gouin Décarie from Université de Montréal, who gave me my first summer job as an undergraduate student: surrogate mother for two young chimpanzees. She was delighted to know that one of her former students received this award and said she felt ‘resurrected’,” says Poulin-Dubois.
The Dean kept to a tradition he started last year of asking each winner to sum up their research in a single sentence. “Last year, people said I didn’t give people enough time to prepare – so now you can all consider yourselves warned!” joked Dean Roy at the beginning of the ceremony.
, an associate professor in both the
and , appreciated having his research recognized by the Dean and his peers.
"It really is a pleasure to receive this recognition for the impact of my research. This is essentially interdisciplinary work; work across fields, departments, faculties and institutions,” Leroux says.
“The Dean's Award encourages me to pursue non-traditional, sometimes unexpected paths to research and graduate supervision."
Dean Roy says he’s delighted members of his Faculty feel encouraged by the recognition, and plans to continue with the expanded awards next year.
“We have so many bright lights in our Faculty, so we should celebrate every opportunity to highlight their achievements. These awards are only one way of doing so, but are definitely a tradition we will continue.”
Complete list of winners from the 2016 FAS Dean’s Awards to Honour Excellence:
Professor Alison Rowley, Department of History, for Teaching Excellence
Professor Cerrie Rogers, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, for Teaching Excellence
Professor Ann English, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Distinguished Scholarship Award (Senior Category)
Professor John Oh, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Distinguished Scholarship (Mid-Career Category)
Professor Patrick Leroux, Département d’études françaises, Distinguished Scholarship (Mid-Career Category)
Ms. Nadine Wright, Department of Education, for Exceptional Service to the Faculty by Staff
Professor Jin Suk Lee, Department of Biology, Concordia University Research Chair in Plant Science and Biotechnology (New Scholar)
Professor Dajana Vuckovic, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Concordia University Research Chair, Clinical Metabolomics, biomarkers, and Preventative Health (New Scholar)
Professor Jean-Philippe Warren, Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Concordia Research Chair, Study of Quebec (Tier I)
Professor Shimon Amir, Department of Psychology, University Research Award
Professor Antoine Bilodeau, Department of Political Science, University Research Award
Professor Guillaume Lamoureux, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University Research Award
Professor Jean-Philippe Lessard, Department of Biology, University Research Award
Professor Mireille Paquet, Department of Political Science, University Research Award
Professor Adrien Tsang, Department of Biology, University Research Award
Professor Giuliana Cucinelli, Department of Education, Petro-Canada’s Young Innovators Award
Professor Diane Poulin-Dubois, Department of Psychology, Prix ACFAS Thérèse Gouin-Décarie
Related topics
Find an expert
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University