Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/biology.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
Department of Biology
Interact with other students, researchers and professors in a rich atmosphere of intellectual activity and participation in the rapidly advancing field of biology.
Localization of gene expression in root tips and leaf trichomes in the Gulick lab.
Biology 450 students conducting a field experiment at the city farm school on the Loyola campus.
The Brett lab studies membrane tethering and fusion: A fluorescence micrograph of liposomes tethering to a fabricated bead.
Newly hatched brook trout collected by the Fraser lab for quantitative genetics research.
A fluorescence micrograph of cytoskeletal organization during cell division from the Piekny lab.
A fluorescent image from the Sacher laboratory of a mitotic cell with a defect in chromosome congression
The Walsh lab investigating microbial diversity in the St. Lawrence Estuary, Quebec.
The Weladji lab studying the rutting behaviour of reindeer in Norway.
Molecular genetic techniques allow characterization of C. albicans transcription regulators and networks in the Whiteway lab.
The Grant lab studies juvenile Atlantic salmon in the wild
In an image from the Bachewich lab, C. albicans yeast cells differentiate into hyphae upon depletion of the G1 cyclin Cln3p
Today
Nov. 20
3 p.m. — 4 p.m.
Tomorrow
Nov. 21
12:30 p.m. — 2 p.m.
More
Notices
August 2, 2017
April 4, 2017
March 20, 2017
Biology news
More news
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Mailing address:
Department of Biology
Concordia University
7141 Sherbrooke Street West
Montreal, Quebec H4B 1R6
Canada
Location:
Richard J. Renaud Science Complex
Room SP 375
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University