Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/encs/about/industrial-advisory-board.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Industrial Advisory Board
Industrial Advisory Board
The Engineering and Computer Science Advisory Board (ENCSAB) is comprised of members who believe that Concordia University plays an important role producing the next generation of engineers and advancing the Faculty’s cutting-edge research. The ENCSAB is a group of supporters who will assist the Dean of the Faculty in developing and executing his strategy for the Faculty. They will provide a critical link to the external community and facilitate dialogue about key strategic initiatives.
Advisory Board mandate
Provide an advisory group to support the Dean of the Faculty. Deepen the knowledge of the Faculty among advisors who support the Dean internally and represent the Faculty externally.
Support the Development efforts of the Faculty by participating in advancements and fundraising activities via either direct support or counsel, advice and networking.
Strengthen the Faculty’s strategy and the execution of its strategy by providing a view of industry practices and needs.
Participate in events that connect Concordia’s Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science to the broader community.
Advisory Board membership
External membership
Gina P. Cody, P. Eng., Ph.D. (Chair)
Executive Chair
McIntosh Perry Limited
Marc Donato
VP Operations, Information Systems Group
MDA Corporation
Pierre Boucher
Head of Research & Innovation
Ericsson Canada
Carolina Gallo
VP, Public Affairs & Corporate Communications
ABB Inc.
Rina Carlini
President and CEO
Haltech Regional Innovation Centre
Rana Ghorayeb
Senior Vice President - Global Investments Infrastructure
Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec
Corinne Charette
Senior Assistant Deputy Minister, SITT
Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
Kon Leong
President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder
ZL Technologies
Stéphane Chayer
Vice President, Country Business Lead
Building Technologies and Government Affairs Quebec
Siemens Canada Limited
Jahangir Mohammed
Founder & CEO
Jasper Technologies
Shibl Mourad
Site Director
Google Montreal
Tommy Petrogiannis
President
eSignLive by Vasco
Joseph Pataki
President & Founding Member
QUAD Engineering Inc.
François Plourde
President, CEO and Chairman
CIMA+
Internal membership
Amir Asif
Dean, Faculty of ENCS
Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Christopher Trueman
Associate Dean, Academic Affairs
Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Ali Akgunduz
Associate Dean, Academic Programs
Professor, Department of Mechanical, Industrial and Aerospace Engineering
Mourad Debbabi
Associate Dean, Research & Graduate Studies
Professor, Concordia Institute for Information Systems Engineering
Michelle Nokken
Associate Dean, Student Academic Services
Professor,  Building Civil & Environmental Engineering
Guillermo Mendoza Suarez
Advisor, Research, Development  & Partnerships
Michelle Miatello
Principal Director of Development
Samia Aladas
Recording Secretary
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 002.139
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University