Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/financial-support/graduate-funding.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Graduate funding
Graduate funding
Financial resources for graduate students
A variety of funding is available to Concordia graduate students. You will find these awards funded by either  (Concordia University and its donors), or  (government and industry).
This represents just a small sample of opportunities available to you as a graduate student. We strongly encourage you to explore alternate sources. When searching for additional funding for your degree, be sure to search:
New students (applying for admission to a Master’s or Doctoral program) are now automatically considered for all ; there is no separate application process.
Current students may apply for select awards disbursed through .
Special entrance awards
Concordia offers these prestigious awards to students starting their degree program at Concordia who at the same time will begin receiving full external fellowships/scholarships from a designated provincial (Québec) or federal granting agency.
PhD candidates may receive a Special Entrance Award valued at $10,000 during the first year of tenure of their .
Master’s level students may receive a Special Entrance Award valued at $6,000 in the first year of tenure of their External Award.
External award recipients are encouraged to  for eligibility criteria and any additional information.
Internal entrance & in-course awards
Consideration for Entrance Awards is now automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.
All students are eligible for these awards.
Current students, registered and in good standing, may apply as long as they meet eligibility requirements. Competitions and deadlines are announced by the Faculties and Programs directly. Applications are made available accordingly.
Additional funding opportunities available to graduate students from internal sources include:
Individual Program/Department/Faculty-based Awards
Open to all students. Contact your  for details (including availability, criteria and application deadlines).
Concordia Accelerator Awards
Valued at $5000, Concordia Accelerator Awards are granted on a competitive basis to qualified, registered graduate students in thesis or thesis-equivalent programs. Deadlines are announced during the academic year.
Funding for Conference Presentations
Funds are available to registered graduate students for presentations at major scholarly conferences, or artistic exhibitions in a peer-reviewed or juried context.
Concordia Stand-Out Graduate Research Award
Valued at $1,000, this biannual competition is meant to recognise exceptional research projects that have been released to the public in the eight months prior to the deadline date, as well as the ability of the graduate researchers to convey the importance of their investigation to the general public. For additional details and to apply please
Research Assistantships
Many graduate students receive support in the form of a stipend paid by a faculty member holding a research grant. Contact your department  or thesis supervisor for possibilities.
Teaching Assistantships
Faculties typically allocate funds annually to individual departments for teaching assistants, markers, lab demonstrators, conference leaders, etc. Contact your department  for details.
The School of Graduate Studies administers the Carolyn and Richard Renaud Graduate Teaching Assistantship. For eligibility and conditions of tenure, consult the  listing.  (MS Word)
Employment
On-campus employment is a great way for graduate students to supplement typical sources of award funding. Contact the  located at 2070 Mackay, Room 106 (SGW campus) and/or the Financial and Awards Office located at 1550 de Maisonneuve blvd W., Room 220 (SGW campus) concerning the .
Note: Graduate Fellowship holders are typically prohibited from working on- or off-campus more than ten hours per week. Recipients are advised to study the terms of their award carefully, and consult with the Graduate Awards Office.
External awards
The Quebec government offers Master’s, Doctoral and Postdoctoral student scholarships through:
(FRQSC)
(FRQNT)
(FRSQ)
Applicants must meet all eligibility requirements by the submission deadline date.
Canadian citizens, permanent residents, out of province and international students are eligible to apply.
Applicants who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada, or who are from a Canadian province other than Québec, are eligible if they provide proof, at the time of submitting their funding application, that
they have been living in Québec on a regular and daily basis for six months (with the appropriate visas and authorizations); and
they have been admitted or enrolled in a Québec university, or that they applied for admission to a Québec university.
International Students
The programme de bourses d'excellence pour étudiants étrangers () award program is open to international doctoral and postdoctoral students only. It is administered by  but candidates from all disciplines are eligible to apply. Candidates cannot apply directly to the agency. Only candidates nominated by a University may submit an application to the provincial competition.
Applications and eligibility
Applications and eligibility requirements are available on respective government agency websites by late August. Deadline to apply the Fonds de recherche du Québec is in October (and by late July for PBEEE) for awards tenable the following academic year.
At the time of application, the candidate may be a senior undergraduate student, graduate student, or either an undergraduate or graduate degree holder not currently enrolled in a program, but planning to pursue graduate studies the following academic year.
Numerous Canadian government agencies offer Master’s, Doctoral and Postdoctoral fellowships and graduate scholarships annually through the:
(NSERC)
(SSHRC)
(CIHR) and more.
Eligibility and deadlines
Applicants must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents (landed immigrants)
Late August: government agency websites indicate applications and eligibility requirements
Deadlines may be as early as October 5th annually
At time of application, the candidate may be a senior undergraduate/graduate student, or an unregistered undergraduate/graduate degree holder planning to pursue graduate studies the following academic year.
Additional funding opportunities available to graduate students from external sources include:
Private Individual, Small Business and Corporate Awards
Applies to specific discipline-based research or study, or to students who meet certain criteria (eg Canadian Citizens, Permanent Residents and international students).
Some of these awards are administered by the Graduate Awards Committee of the university, while others are administered directly by the award sponsor.
Consult the  for more details.
Connect with us
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University