Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/exercise-science.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Exercise Science (BSc)
Exercise Science (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Exercise Science?
Explore the science behind human exercise, health and physical activity. Our programs give you the professional knowledge and skills to interpret, apply and conduct health science research. You learn to assess, evaluate and design programs that can maintain and improve health, fitness and athletic performance.
Through lectures, hands-on lab instruction and internships, you practise clinical skills related to rehabilitation, and the improvement or maintenance of personal health. Working in small groups and using state-of-the-art facilities, you study a range of people, from individuals suffering from chronic disease to elite athletes.
Our department offers you three options to specialize in:
: gives you the chance to participate in focused research with faculty
: the only program of its kind in Eastern Canada, accredited by the Canadian Athletic Therapists Association (CATA)
: assess, evaluate and design exercise programs for people requiring special medical attention
Whatever option you choose, you will graduate with an applied knowledge of health science that focuses on health and fitness.
Program details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Options:
Honours in Exercise Science* (60 credits)
The BSc Honours in Exercise Science offers additional courses providing research training in a variety of applied-science and health areas. Students graduating from the BSc Honours program will possess an academic background compatible with the entry requirements for the majority of graduate schools. Students must meet the University regulations concerning the Honours degree.
*Students seeking admission to the Honours program apply to the Department Honours Committee normally following the completion of 24 program credits. Applications should be sent to the Interim Honours Advisor, , by March 15th. Applications must include a:
Statement of Intent.
Student Record.
Email address.
Major in Exercise Science (42 credits)
Concentrations
Students may apply for a transfer to Specialization after having completed certain courses and obtained a Grade Point Average of 3.0.
Degree requirements
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 25.000
Canadian High Schools: 80%
U.S. High Schools: 3.0
University Transfers: B
International Bacc. (IB): 30
Bacc. Français: 13/20
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes
Emergency Care in Sport and Exercise
Assessment/Rehabilitation of the Hip, Spine and Pelvis
Human Anatomy/Physiology
Nutrition in Exercise and Sport
Pain Management Strategies
Course descriptions
Curriculum requirements
Required credits are as follows:
Honours in Exercise Science (60 credits)
Major in Exercise Science (42 credits)
The Honours and Major each have specific required and optional courses. .
(Exercise Science Student Association - ESSA)
Our programs open up career paths in health- and fitness-related sectors that can include:
Clinical Exercise Physiology
Assess human movement, performance and function in healthy and clinical populations
Develop rehabilitation programs for people with various chronic diseases (cardiac, pulmonary, metabolic, oncologic, renal, etc.) and clients with injuries
Create, plan and implement a variety of fitness activities and programs for diverse populations
Promote healthy lifestyles to enhance quality of life
Conduct workplace assessment to reduce the risk of employee injury
Certified Athletic Therapist in Canada (C.A.T.[C])
Professional sport
National athletes
Clinical settings
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University