Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/cell-molecular-biology.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Cell and Molecular Biology (BSc)
Cell and Molecular Biology (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Cell and Molecular Biology?
Map genes. Examine microbes. Crack the secrets of the genome, the program of life. When you study Cell and Molecular Biology, you get a front-row seat to study the basic processes that run life’s playbook. As a cell and molecular biologist, you can discover how genes shape organisms, how immune cells protect our body and how biotechnology can develop pest- or drought-resistant crops for the developing world.
Our Biology Department laboratories feature modern equipment and protocols that introduce you to state-of-the-art technologies for cell physiology and molecular biology. Small class sizes foster strong student-professor relationships. As a Cell and Molecular Biology student, you'll follow both the biology core curriculum and courses focused within your specialization. Through labs, lectures and tutorials you will:
Study the mechanisms of cellular interactions and genetic controls in plants and animals
Study the structure and function of microbes
Learn the techniques used to study genetic function, gene mapping and genome analysis
Concordia’s hands-on approach provides a solid foundation for a career in the life and health sciences or paves the way for future graduate studies.
Program details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Options:
Honours in Cell and Molecular Biology (72 credits)
Specialization in Cell and Molecular Biology (66 credits)
Degree requirements
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 24.000 (Honours: 28.000)
Canadian High Schools: 75% (Honours: 85%)
U.S. High Schools: 2.8 (Honours: 3.3)
University Transfers: C+ (Honours: B+)
International Bacc. (IB): 28 (Honours: 33)
Bacc. Français: 11/20 (Honours: 14/20)
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes
Molecular Biology
Cell Physiology
Cellular Neuroscience
Genetics and Cell Biology Laboratory
Course descriptions
Curriculum requirements
Required Biology credits are as follows:
Honours in Cell & Molecular Biology (72 credits)
Specialization in Cell & Molecular Biology (66 credits)
Each option also has specific required and optional courses. .
Undergraduate students in the Department of Biology have excellent opportunities to carry out individualized, original research projects in the laboratory of an externally-funded research group under the supervision of a faculty member.
The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. Work positions are available in industry, national and provincial research institutes, health organizations and universities located throughout Canada.
Biology undergraduates have the foundation to pursue graduate studies or medicine. Cell and Molecular Biology alumni have established careers in fields including:
Biotechnology
Systems Biology
Medicine
Pharmacology
Medical research
Related programs
Key Resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University