Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/philosophy-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Philosophy (MA)
Philosophy (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Philosophy?
The central focus of philosophy is developing rigorous conceptual frameworks and methods of conceptual analysis adequate to addressing fundamental questions about reality and human life, including questions about the direction we’re headed in as humans.  By cultivating your philosophical ability at the MA level you’ll be in a position to wrestle with some of our most significant concerns: the basis of ethical action, human rights, global justice or our relationship with the environment.
At Concordia, we specialize in and encompass both Anglo-American and Continental-European approaches, as well as the history of philosophy.
Our MA students are looking at topics such as: Global justice, Kant’s metaphysics, Merleau-Ponty and traumatic memory, as well as Levinas’s ethics.
We offer a , supported by a community of committed professors.
Our students are well-placed to continue in the field by pursuing doctoral studies .  Whatever your path, clarity of thought and careful reasoning, along with familiarity with the history of ideas, will prove invaluable assets.
You may choose one of two options.
Option A: MA with
Option B: MA with
We encourage students who plan to continue their studies at the doctoral level to write a research paper (option A). You’ll finish with a strong writing sample to submit with your application to a PhD program, and you may also submit the paper for graduate and professional conferences or journals.
You may choose to take the equivalent of six credits at other Quebec universities, including Université de Montréal, McGill University, or the Université du Québec à Montréal, with permission from the Graduate Program Director.
.
Admission Requirements. An honours degree in philosophy, or its equivalent. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
If you have a Bachelor's degree in another discipline, with at least 24 credits in Philosophy, you may be eligible to undertake a qualifying year program. Please get in touch with our
to discuss your options.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of Purpose (maximum 1,250 words) should include a description of the research you would like to undertake
Sample(s) of your writing, around 2,500 to 3,750 words
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Philosophy
MA
Feb. 1
Dec. 1
n/a
Fall: A second deadline, July 16, exists for applicants who wish to be considered for admission only, without funding.
Courses typically offered include:
Ancient philosophy
Kant and post-Kantian German philosophy
Environmental philosophy
Moral and political philosophy
Feminist philosophy
Philosophy of science
Cognitive science
Phenomenology
and our department site for .
We’re committed to providing students the support they need to focus on their studies. Top students benefit from
and teaching assistantships, and all students are eligible for conference awards and other funding.
Please also consult the Philosophy Department’s
page and .
Choose your supervisor from amongst .  Speak to the
to discuss the process of selecting a supervisor.
Review an inspiring list of
and .
Our , including the University of Oxford, McGill University, University of Southern California, Université de Montréal, University of Toronto, LMU Munich, and others.
An MA in Philosophy also positions you to teach in Quebec’s Cegep system.
We believe that clarity of thought and careful reasoning, along with familiarity with the history of ideas, will prove to be invaluable skills, whatever your career path.
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2501
Location:
2145 Mackay St., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2J1
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University