Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/classics.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Classics (BA)
Classics (BA)
Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Offered by:
,
Why study Classics?
If you are intrigued by the ancient world, the Classics program is a great choice since it encompasses the study of all aspects of ancient Greece and Rome. Our innovative Classics programs provide an integrated and interdisciplinary environment that combines archaeology, ancient Greek and Latin, history, mythology and literature. These programs present the experience of classical civilizations as part of a continuum of human experience that includes 21st-century cultures. Classics offers a challenging program in which you can explore a critical and exciting period of world history.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Arts takes a minimum of three to four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Options:
Honours in Classics – Ancient History and Archaeology (60 credits)
Major in Classics – Ancient History and Archaeology (42 credits)
Honours in Classics – Classical Languages and Literature (60 credits)
Major in Classics – Classical Languages and Literature (42 credits)
Minor in Classical Languages and Literature (24 credits)
Minor in Classical Archeology (24 credits)
Minor in Classical Civilization (24 credits)
.
Cegep Students
No specific courses are required beyond a DEC
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 20.000 (Honours: 28.000)
Canadian High Schools: 70% (Honours: 85%)
U.S. High Schools: 2.5 (Honours: 3.3)
University Transfers: C (Honours: B+)
International Bacc. (IB): 27 (Honours: 33)
Bacc. Français: 11/20 (Honours: 14/20)
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes include:
Heroic Epics of Greece and Rome
History of the Roman Empire
Archaeology of the Greek Bronze Age
Representations of Women in Ancient Greece and Rome
Ancient Greek or Latin, from introductory to advanced levels
for a complete list of current courses.
Find out about all of the awards that the department offers.
Learn more about these other awards
Financial support and awards can be found on the
website
from the Classical Association of Canada (CAC)
, in collaboration with the various faculties and the School of Graduate Studies, administers student exchange and internships with Concordia's partner universities and other institutions of higher learning around the world. This exchange enhances relationships between the people and cultures of different countries and promotes international education.
Participating students remain registered at Concordia University and spend from one term to one academic year taking courses, doing research, or participating in an internship program. For complete details, please see the .
Exchange programs can take several forms, including:
Students who complete a Classics degree are ready to pursue graduate studies in Classics, Archaeology or a related field. Graduates will be well prepared for careers in any profession that requires in-depth ideas, fast information gathering, critical problem solving, dynamic oral and written communication, detailed analysis of data, and an experience of different cultures. Career opportunities can include:
Law
Graduate school
Business
Museums, archives and libraries
Diplomatic positions
Journalism and publishing
Professional writing
Related programs
Key Resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University