Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/sociology-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Sociology (MA)
Sociology (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Sociology?
Design and conduct a study that addresses a pressing contemporary social problem. Develop a deeper understand of various cultural and cross-cultural practices and differences that impact individuals on personal, local and global levels.
The MA in Sociology provides a critical and politically engaged research setting where you will develop advanced training in a wide variety of sociological methods and theories. Course materials and resources enable students to skillfully explore traditional topics in sociology, while also offering opportunities to consider new and emerging areas of social inquiry.
Our
have connections to multiple , such as the Centre for the Interdisciplinary Study of Culture and Society, Centre for Broadcasting and Journalism Studies, Centre for Technoculture and Games (TAG), and the newly launched . Well-known for encouraging students to participate in local, national and international research projects, our faculty also includes Quebec’s first-ever .
Program Details
You may choose one of two options.
Option A: MA in Sociology with Thesis
Option B: MA in Sociology without Thesis
Students enrolled in option A are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research. A thesis proposal serves as the basis for the elaboration of the written thesis.
Option B is a year-long program that asks students to write a research essay under the supervision of a faculty member. Essays are evaluated by two faculty members, including the supervisor, and can be either a literature review or a report on empirical research.
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional courses may be taken from outside the program, subject to the advice and approval of the student’s supervisor or the Graduate Program Director.
Supervision. At the beginning of the first term of full-time or part-time study, the student is assigned an interim advisor for the duration of the first term. At the beginning of the second term in the case of full-time study, or the equivalent in terms of part-time study, the student must select a permanent thesis supervisor and a second faculty member to serve on the Thesis Committee. Members of the Thesis Committee evaluate the thesis. The thesis will be examined by an Examining Committee, composed of the thesis supervisor and the second committee member, and a third faculty member chosen in consultation with the Graduate Program Director. The responsibility for the composition of the Thesis Committee rests with the student in consultation with and subject to the approval of the Graduate Program Director.
Language Requirement. A working knowledge of English and French is recommended although written work may be submitted in either language.
for full degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. An undergraduate degree with honours or specialization in sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required. An undergraduate degree with a major in sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) will also be considered provided that the background preparation is acceptable. Applicants with degrees in cognate disciplines with higher grade point averages will also be considered.
Applicants who lack certain prerequisite courses may be required to take a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.
Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take up to 24 undergraduate independent credits.
Applications to the program must be accompanied by a preliminary statement (roughly 500 words in length) of the student’s intentions regarding research and thesis.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
(from academic referees and submitted in a sealed and signed envelope) with
Statement of Purpose (three pages double spaced plus bibliography) should include:
Your research intentions and the methods you propose to use,
A short presentation of relevant debates and theories with which your work will engage,
The name of a potential supervisor whose research area is compatible with your interests with whom you would like to work. It is recommended that contact be made with a potential supervisor prior to submitting an application.
Sample of writing (optional)
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Sociology
MA
Jan. 15*
Oct. 1**
n/a
*January 15 is the deadline for applicants who wish to be considered for funding. Applicants who do not require funding must submit applications by April 1. It is recommended that International students apply by March 15th to allow adequate time to obtain study permits.
**Winter: Late applications may be considered until November 15th.
Core Courses:
Issues in Classical Sociological Theory
Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory
Quantitative Research Design and Methods
Qualitative Research Design and Methods
Elective courses typically offered:
Democracy and Citizenship
Gender Studies
Globalisation
Health, Illness and Medicine
Media and Communication
Self and Subjectivity
Social Movements and Social Change
Sociology of the Body
Sociology of the Family
for a complete list of current courses.
Master’s students are eligible for a variety of scholarships and fellowships, Research assistant and Teaching assistant positions, conference travel awards and other in-course funding.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.  Awards that are available for Master’s students include:
Faculty of Arts and Science Fellowships ($7,000)
Concordia Merit Scholarships ($10,000)
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award ($5,000)
Arts and Science Fellowship in Ethnic Studies and Social Diversity ($7,500)
Mentor Awards ($5,000)
Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards ($6,000)
Teaching Assistantships ($3200/term)
Cary Boucock Memorial Award ($500)
Susan Russell Memorial Graduate Award ($500)
We encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. , ).
Please consult Concordia’s
page and
for additional information.
Faculty members are involved with research initiatives at the local, national and international levels. As world experts in a variety of emerging and established fields, their findings are well represented in a number of .
criminalised populations
demography
digital and online culture
food studies
Gender and Sexuality
globalisation
journalism and popular media
justice and social ethics
kinship and the family
law and society
marginalised communities
perception and representation
sociology of the body
Review an inspiring list of .
The  (SAGSA) represents the collective interests and promotes the general welfare of graduate students in the department.
SAGSA also hosts an annual interdisciplinary student conference in March. Previous editions have seen students from across Quebec and Canada present their research and foster dialogue across disciplines. Keynote speakers from past conferences have included Dr. Ram Jahku, Dr. Charmaine A. Nelson, and Dr. Alexandrine Boudreault-Fournier.
is a bi-annual peer-reviewed publication administered under the editorial direction of graduate students in the Department of Sociology & Anthropology. The journal is strongly interdisciplinary and intended for emerging scholars of social and cultural analysis.
Our alumni are highly sought after by colleges, community organizations, federal funding agencies, non-profit organizations, government agencies, social networking companies, think tanks and universities. Recent graduates are working as academic directors, consultants, educators, instructors, professors, research associates and research coordinators.
Examples of organizations and institutions our alumni are currently working for include:
Brock University
Canadian House of Wisdom
Canadian Institutes of Health Research
Douglas College
Facebook
Marianopolis College
McGill University
Ontario Pharmacy Evidence Network
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons
Sexpressions
Statistics Canada
University of Prince Edward Island
University of Waterloo
Many graduates also choose to continue their studies at the
and have become faculty members in sister universities.
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2161
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University