Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/artsci/exercise-science/faculty.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Faculty
Faculty
Dr. Simon L
Bacon, PhD, FTOS, FCCS
Professor and CIHR SPOR Chair in Innovative, Patient-Oriented, Behavioural Clinical Trials, Exercise Science
Office:
Richard J. Renaud Science Complex,7141 Sherbrooke W.
Phone:
(514) 848-2424 ext. 5750
Email:
Website(s):
Dr. Bacon's research deals with the impact of health behaviours and lifestyle (e.g., physical activity, diet, weight management, stress) on chronic diseases (e.g., obesity, cardiovascular disease, and chronic lung disease). He utilises multiple methodologies including epidemiological, psychophysiological, and behavioural trials designs. Currently, Dr. Bacon is the CIHR SPOR Chair in Innovative, Patient-Oriented, Behavioural Clinucal Trials and a fellow of the Obesity Society and the Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Prior to joining Concordia he completed his postdoctoral studies at the Duke University Medical Center, McGill University, Hôpital du Sacré-Cour de Montréal, and the Montreal Heart Institute. In addition to Concordia, Dr. Bacon is co-director of the
and researcher at the CIUSSS-NIM and co-leads the International Behavioural Trials Network.
Education
PhD (University of Birmingham), MSc (De Montfort University), BSc (Hons, University of Warwick)
Research interests
Behavioural (e.g., physical activity, weight management, stress management) interventions for chronic diseases
The epidemiological impact of health behaviours on chronic diseases
The role of acute stress (psychophysiology) in the progression of chronic disease
The impact of sex and gender on chronic diseases.
Bariatric care and surgery
Cardiovascular and respiratory diseases
Patient-oriented, patient-participatory, and integrated knowledge translation
Teaching activities
Courses
EXCI 250: Research Methods and Statistics
EXCI 420: Physical Activity Epidemiology
EXCI 610: Statistics and Research Design
Information for Graduate Students
Students wishing to pursue graduate studies under Dr. Bacon should first read the following documents.
Research activities
Current funders
Canadian Institutes for Health Research (CIHR)
Fonds de recherche du Quebec - Sante (FRQS)
Canadian Partnership Against Cancer (CPAC)
Publications
Please see my CV for an up-to-date list of publications.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Mailing address:
Sir George William Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Location:
Engineering & Visual Arts Building
Room EV 3.139
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University