Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/faculty.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
Faculty
Peter C.
van Wyck, PhD
Professor, Communication Studies
Graduate Program Director, Media Studies MA Program, Communication Studies
Office:
Communication Studies and Journalism Building,7141 Sherbrooke W.
Phone:
(514) 848-2424 ext. 2561
Email:
Availability:
By Appointment
Education
Forest Technology Dip., Sir Sandford Fleming College, 1983
BSc, Environmental Science / Social Ecology, Trent University, 1987
MA, Methodologies for the Study of Western History Culture, Trent University, 1992
PhD, Graduate Program in Communication, McGill University, 1997
Postdoctoral Fellow, Methodologies for the Study of Western History and Culture / Environmental Studies – SSHRC, Trent University, 1997-1999
Postdoctoral Fellow, Interdisciplinary Postdoctoral Fellow in the Humanities (formerly Webster Fellowship) and Assistant Professor of Geography, Queen’s University, 1999-2000
Academic Life
My academic background is broadly interdisciplinary and committed to what has come to be called the Environmental Humanities. I have training in forestry, environmental and ecological sciences (primarily wetlands), continental philosophy, environmental and cultural studies, and communication and media studies. I teach undergraduate and graduate courses (Diploma, MA and PhD) in semiotics, communication theory, visual culture, photographic theory, and special topic seminars such as: Reading Freud; Theory in a Cold Climate; The Arts of Memory; Landscapes of the Local: Rethinking Space and Place; and Landscapes of the Sign: The Place of the Photographic Image.
My current research and writing interests are broadly in the areas of the theory and philosophy of communication; semiotics of environment; atomic & nuclear history; landscape, memory, chorography, topistics and critical topographies; discourses of North and nordicity; radiation and the photographic image.
At the moment I am working on a SSHRC-funded project with
of Queen’s University that concerns nuclear waste, the media of apology, justice and the future. I am also writing about nuclear waste repositories, the Cloud Chamber, Harold Jacobson and the Japanese relationship with the atom, the Anthropocene, tsunami stones, and, with my long-time collaborator
of Queen's University, survivor trees.  From all of this a new book is emerging – tentatively entitled The Angel Turns – Writing at the end of the Holocene.
With
Livia Monet (University of Montréal), I am co-editing a collection of essays – Toxic Immanence: Nuclear Legacies, Futures, and the Place of Twenty-First Century Nuclear Environmental Humanities – for McGill-Queen’s University Press. Anticipated publication, 2018.
My last book (2010) published by McGill Queen’s University Press, is entitled
It was awarded the 2011 Gertrude J. Robinson book award for the best new book in communication studies by the Canadian Communication Association, and was shortlisted for the 2012 Canada Prize in the Social Sciences – The Harold Adams Innis Award of the Canadian Federation of Social Sciences and Humanities.
My previous book,
(2005), published in the Theory out of Bounds series at the University of Minnesota Press, was also awarded the Gertrude J. Robinson Book Prize. And my first book,
was published in 1997.
Teaching activities (2016-2017)
On leave, Fall 2017
Recent and Ongoing Work
Preface, in Julie Salverson, Lines of Flight: An Atomic Memoire. Wolzak and Wynn, Hamilton, 2016, pp. 1-5.
“The Anthropocene’s Signature.” The Nuclear Culture Source Book, ed. Ele Carpenter. Black Dog Publishing in partnership with Bildmuseet, Sweden and Arts Catalyst, London, 2016, pp. 23-30.
“A Note on Common Ground,” The Goose – Association for Literature, Environment, and Culture in Canada / Association pour la littérature, l'environnement et la culture au Canada.
Invited contribution for Routledge Companion to Media and Risk, edited by Bhaskar Sarkar and Bishnupriya Ghosh (2017).
“Sounding out the Nuclear,” with Julie Salverson (Queen’s University) and juliet Palmer (composer), chapter for edited volume Toxic Immanence: Nuclear Legacies, Futures, and the Place of Twenty-First Century Nuclear Environmental Humanities, for McGill-Queen’s University Press
"What was the Anthropocene?" with Myra Hird. Chapter invited for volume Assembling the Planet: The Post-War Politics of Globality. Rens van Munster and Casper Sylvest (eds.), Routledge London. Accepted. A version of this text was given as the Leverhulme Lecture with Myra Hird, Lancaster University, June 2014.
Pescatore, Claudio, Radu Botezvan, Abe Luik, Cornelius Holtorf, and Peter C. Van Wyck. "Preservation of Records, Knowledge and Memory across Generations (RK and M). Markers-Reflections on Inter-generational Warnings in the Form of Japanese Tsunami Stones." Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development, Nuclear Energy Agency-OECD/NEA, Radioactive Waste Management Committee-RWMC, Expert Group on Preservation of Records, Knowledge and Memory across Generations, 2014.
“Footbridge at Atwater: A Chorographic Inventory of Effects,” Thinking with Water, edited by Cecilia Chen, Janine MacLeod, and Astrida Neimanis, McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2013.
“Innis and I,” Harold Innis in the North, edited by William Buxton, McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2013.
“An Archive of Threat,” invited for Special Issue, “Re-Thinking the Monument,” Future Anterior, 9.2 Winter (2013): 53-80.
“Northern War Stories: The Dene, the Archive, and Canada’s Atomic Modernity.” Bearing Witness: Perspectives on War and Peace from the Arts and Humanities, edited by Sherrill Grace, Patrick Imbert, and Tiffany Johnstone. McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2013.
Recent and upcoming talks
2016-2017
Talk and PhD Seminar at the Centre for Research Architecture, Goldsmiths University of London, Spring 2017
“Deep Uncertainty” Perpetual Uncertainty: Art and the Deep Time of Radiation. Panelist and facilitator. Bildmuseet, Umeå University, Sweden, November.
Lines of Flight: A reading” With Julie Salverson. Queen’s University, Kingston, September.
Plenary Panel. "Nuclear Imprescriptibility in the Late Holocene." Association for Literature, Environment, and Culture in Canada (ALECC), Kingston, June.
2014-2015
“The lens of Fukushima: an inventory of afters,” Invited talk, with Julie Salverson, “Through Post-Atomic Eyes: Toxic Legacies, Post-nuclear Futures,” OCAD University and Art Gallery of Ontario, October 2015.
“Sounding out the Nuclear,” with Julie Salverson (Queen’s University) and juliet Palmer (composer), chapter for edited volume Sonic Contestations of Nuclear Power, eds. Noriko Manabe (Princeton) and Jessica Schwartz (UCLA). Chapter workshop, October 2015, Center for Human Values at Princeton University, October 2015.
Invited contribution for “MicroTate” section, Tate etc. Magazine, publication of the Tate Gallery consortium, October 2015.
Invited Discussant, Session on Life, for Infrastructure, Environment and Life in the Anthropocene,” SSHRC workshop, Concordia University, October 20.
“Placing the Anthropocene,” Invited talk for the Critical Topography Symposium session on Forensic Landscape and the Nuclear Paradigm. Ryerson and Trent University, May 20.
“Journeys Along the Atomic Highway: History, Politics, Performance and Memoir,” Invited Lecture, with Julie Salverson. Sophia University Institute of Comparative Culture, Sophia University, Tokyo, April 20.
“From Great Bear Lake to Japan,” Invited talk, with Julie Salverson. International Symposium: From Hiroshima and Bikini to Fukushima and the World – Exchanging the voices and actions of the citizens, Japanese Scientists’ Association Fukushima Branch, Fukushima University, April 11.
"The Uranium Highway from Great Bear Lake, Canada to Hiroshima," Invited Lecture, with Julie Salverson, HPI Research Forum, Hiroshima Peace Institute, Japan, April 7.
“The Other Spike.” Invited presentation, “Rethinking Radiation Ecologies: New Approaches to the History, Aesthetics, Epistemology, and Politics of Radioactive Environments ,” International Workshop, Université de Montréal, March 14.
“The Trail of the Atom: Image, Witness and Archive,” Invited talk. Faculty of Fine Arts, University of Regina, March 10.
Invited Talk, Nuclear Waste Management Organization of Japan, Tokyo, April.
“The Anthropocene’s Archive,” Keynote at “Construire la mémoire: An International Conference and Debate on the Preservation of Records, Knowledge and Memory of Radioactive Waste across Generations.” Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the Nuclear Energy Association (NEA), Verdun, France. September.
Publications
Books
The Angel Turns: Writing at the End of the Holocene, monograph in preparation.
Toxic Immanence: On the Nuclear Humanities, edited collection with Dr. Livia Monnet. McGill Queen's University Press, in preparation.
Theory in a Cold Climate: Cultural Studies of the Canadian North. Topia: Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies 32 (Fall 2014).
The Highway of the Atom, Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2010.
Signs of Danger: Waste, Trauma, and Nuclear Threat. Minneapolis: Theory out of Bounds series, University of Minnesota Press, 2005.
Primitives in the Wilderness: Deep Ecology and the Missing Human Subject. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1997.
Selected Essays and other Writing
“Theory in a Cold Climate,” Introduction to Theory in a Cold Climate special issue of Topia: Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies. 32 Fall 2014.
“Nuclear Topographies,” Review Essay of Hot Spotter’s Report: Military Fables of Toxic Waste (Krupar), Environment and Planning D: Society and Space. Online, May 3, 2014.
“An Archive of Threat.” Future Anterior, 9.2 Winter (2013): 53-80.
“The ciphered river of the streets
– being a very preliminary collection of notes and thoughts toward an abécédaire for young people, with particular reference to the conditions of life during the printemps érable.” Out of the mouths of “casseroles” / textes qui bougent au rythme du carré rouge. A special open-wi issue of wi: journal of mobile media, part II, 19 june 2012.
Numbering Numbers: Urban Semiology and Practical Pedagogy. With June Ying-Li Aldinucci. Juried exhibition “Archives and the City,” with the Universities Art Association of Canada/ Association d’art des universities du Canada (UAAC) Conference hosted by Concordia University, November.
"An Emphatic Geography: Notes on the Ethical Itinerary of Landscape." Canadian Journal of Communication 33.2 (2008): 171-91.
“The Highway of the Atom: Recollections along a route” Topia 7 (Spring 2002): 99-115.
“The American Monument,” Alphabet City, No. 8 (Lost in the Archives, 2002): 740-767.
Selected Essays
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University