Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/registration/advising/encs-advising.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
/
ENCS advising
Engineering & Computer Science Advising
Advising for Undergraduate Students 2017-2018
Contact us
Helpline: 514-848-2424 ext. 3055
Web site:
Newly Admitted Students — September and January Admissions
As a newly admitted student in ENCS, you are highly encouraged to attend one of the orientation sessions that are organized by the Faculty. However, you do not require advising in order to register. Once you have been accepted, you can register immediately on the Portal. All details are enclosed with your acceptance package. To confirm your participation in one of the orientation sessions , please contact  at 514-848-2424 ext. 3055.
New Students to the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, including students who have recently been granted a degree transfer, should:
Read the information provided in your acceptance package from the Office of the Registrar, including the information provided to you by the Faculty.
Please make sure you read the , prior to registering. Should you experience any problems, please contact the .
Contact Student Academic Services at 514-848-2424 ext. 3055 to confirm participation in one of the orientation sessions offered.
Students must register for both the Fall, and Winter terms. Failure to do so may result in an inappropriate schedule or inability to take required courses according to your sequence.
International Students and students from out-of-province should refer to the information enclosed in their acceptance package.
Should you experience any problems, please contact:
Student Academic Services, 514-848-2424 ext. 3055, () or Salvatore Colavita, 514-848-2424 ext. 3254 () for further assistance with registration.
Potential Graduates For Spring or Fall Convocation
All potential graduating students in the Faculty (40 or less credits left to complete their program) must request a curriculum evaluation from April to July if they require this information for Fall/Winter registration.
Last minute curriculum assessments cannot be performed by Student Academic Services during peak registration periods. For details and a checklist for potential graduates please see:
Current Students
All current students must register for fall and winter courses before August and to report any problems to student academic services.
Failure to register for both terms prior to August may result in an unfavorable schedule or in extreme cases the unavailability of required courses.
Please read the following guidelines for assistance with registration:
All students should be following the appropriate course sequence for their program. Sequences are located at the following link  https://www.concordia.ca/encs/students/sas/undergrad-program-info/course-sequences.html. If your sequence is not available or you encounter any problems regarding the selection of courses because you are off-sequence, please contact Student Academic Services for further assistance.
Please note that your sequences were designed to ensure that you can graduate within the regular program length. Failure to follow the recommended sequence may result in time conflicts in later sessions and may delay your graduation.
Please note that all requests for transfer credits or exemptions must be submitted to Student Academic Services at least 1 month prior to the start of a term. Requests should NOT be submitted directly to a department.
Students in a Bachelor of Computer Science program who have been admitted or readmitted prior to the 2009-2010 academic year, should follow the academic calendar for the year to which they have been admitted /readmitted.
Students in a Bachelor of Computer Science program who have been admitted or readmitted after the 2009-2010 academic year, should refer to section 71.20.6 of the  in order to find the list of General Electives for Engineering and Computer Science.
Students in the faculty may not take COMP 201, DESC 200, FINA 200, FINA 210, INTE 290 and MATH 200, 208 or 209, for credit.
Students are urged to register according to the registration start dates. Delay in registration means you loss of priority to register and courses getting full.   Alternate week Laboratory schedule:
Fall Term: Labs are scheduled to commence September 11th for week (1) labs and September 18th for week (2) labs.
Winter Term: Labs are scheduled to commence January 9th for week (1) labs and January 15th for week (2) labs.
All students must have completed all “200” level courses required for their program before they can register for any “400” level course.
All 200-level courses within the program which are prerequisites for other courses must be completed with a C- or higher. A 200-level course in which a student has obtained a D+ or lower must be repeated before attempting a course for which it is a prerequisite.
All readmitted students are required to attend a readmission workshop prior to being allowed to register.
Students in Co-operative Programs
Co-op students will be given priority for registration. If you are currently a Co-op student you may register on the first day of registration for each of the Summer and Fall/Winter terms. It is your responsibility to register during this time period to ensure that you are given priority.
Independent Students
Independent Students who wish to take courses in the Faculty will need to have the required prerequisite completed prior to taking the course. For further information, please contact Steve Clark at .
Visiting Students
Visiting Students must be in good standing at their home institution and currently registered in an Engineering or Computer Science program. Students on probation (failed or conditional standing) at their home institution will not be considered as visiting or independent students.
Requests from Visiting Students to take courses in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Priority for all courses will be to students currently enrolled in the Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science at Concordia University.
Individuals mandated to take courses by a professional organization, such as the Ordre des ingénieurs du Québec or the Ordre des architects, must submit a letter to Student Academic Services, from the organization indicating the courses that are recommended.
For further information on visiting students (including from professional organizations), please consult the  at 514-848-2424 Ext 3055.
Summer Registration
You are permitted to register for a maximum of 14 credits, with no more than 8.5 credits in each summer term, with the exception of the following:
Co-op students following the sequence recommended by their Department
Students entering the Faculty in the proceeding January session who are required to take a full-time summer course load.
Potential graduates who require a course to remain in sequence.
The 14 credit rule also applies to out-of-Faculty courses.
Students wishing to take a course overload who do not meet Item 1 or 2 must submit a written student request form to the Student Academic Services Office to be permitted to take more credits. Approval of course overloads during the summer is based on a GPA of 3.00 or higher, and proximity to graduation.
Web Sites
To obtain further information about the Faculty or your program, please visit the  or your departmental sites as follows:
Graduate advising information varies depending on program. For an overview of academic advising and suggested contacts by program:
»  under the Graduate tab in the Registration guide.
Contact us
Student Academic Services (SAS)
Office hours
Monday to Friday, 9 AM – 4:30 PM
Helpline: 514-848-2424, ext. 3055
Location:
Web:
ENCS Department contacts
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University