Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2017/11/10/cupfa-and-concordia-sign-a-new-collective-agreement.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
News
CUPFA and Concordia sign a new collective agreement
'Negotiations were constructive and open,' says the VP of Services
Posted on November 10, 2017
|
By: Sylvie Babarik
The new agreement will be in effect until December 31.
The Concordia University Part-Time Faculty Association (CUPFA) has signed a new collective agreement with the university. The two parties inked the deal on November 10.
“Signing a new agreement is more than a formality. It’s a time to recognize the hard work and collaboration that went into the negotiations,” says Nadia Hardy, vice-provost of Faculty Relations.
Work on the new agreement began over a year ago, culminating in a deal on the terms of renewal over the summer. CUPFA members then ratified the tentative agreement and Concordia’s Board of Governors approved it on August 25.
“This satisfies both parties’ priority issues and serves as a platform for our next round of talks,” says Robert Soroka, president of CUPFA.
The new collective agreement will be enacted retroactively to May 1, 2015, when the old one lapsed. It will be in effect until December 31, 2017 — the term agreed upon by both parties.
Roger Côté, vice-president of Services, applauds the work done by both teams.
“Negotiations were constructive and open — more proof of the collegial environment fostered at Concordia.”
Present on behalf of CUPFA:
Robert Soroka, president
Patrice Blais, VP of Grievance and Collective Agreement
Pierre-Luc Bouchard, CUPFA intern
Scott Chlopan, executive secretary
Laurie Milner, chair of Communications
Lorraine Oades, VP of Professional Development
Brigitte Racine, CUPFA intern
Present on behalf of Concordia:
Alan Shepard, Concordia president
Denis Cossette, chief financial officer
Roger Côté, VP of Services
Jorgen Hansen, professor of economics
Nadia Hardy, vice-provost of Faculty Relations
Carolina Willsher, AVP of Human Resources
Sonia Coutu, executive director of Employee and Labour Relations
JoséEve McCarthy, advisor for Labour Relations
Access the new Concordia University Part-Time Faculty Association collective agreement on .
Related Links
Related stories
Related topics
Latest stories
Find an expert
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword
Most popular
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University