Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/social-cultural-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Social and Cultural Anthropology (MA)
Social and Cultural Anthropology (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Social and Cultural Analysis?
The MA in Social and Cultural Anthropology provides the opportunity to engage in a substantial fieldwork project where the researcher works closely with research subjects and gains an understanding of their experiences and of the ways in which they construct meaningful lives. Fieldwork projects are individualized, giving you the freedom to choose a topic or/and a community to work with in consultation with your supervisor.
Students may also choose to pursue a year-long, essay (non-thesis) option that requires them to engage in a broad and rigorous study of anthropological literature. This course of study is well-suited for students who wish to dedicate more energy to course work and those looking for a faster point of entry into a Doctoral program.
Our research-active
produce work that has been recognized by many Canadian research agencies, including the Canada Research Chairs Program. Faculty also sit on editorial boards for a number of leading peer-reviewed journals such as Anthropologica, and The Senses and Society.
Join an intimate cohort of students whose work cuts across traditional research areas. Research topics that our current students are examining include:
gender and feminism
colonialism and expansion
media and technology
food and sustainability
utopian and dystopian futures
Program Details
You may choose one of two options.
Option A: MA with thesis
Option B: MA with essay
Students enrolled in option A are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent ethnographic field research. A thesis proposal serves as the basis for the elaboration of the written thesis.
Option B is a one year program that asks students to write a research essay under the supervision of a faculty member. Essays are evaluated by two faculty members, including the supervisor, and can be either a literature review or a report on empirical research.
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 45 credits. Additional courses may be taken from outside the program, subject to the advice and approval of the student’s supervisor or the Graduate Program Director.
Supervision. Students are assigned an interim advisor upon admission. Students in the thesis option must select their permanent advisor by the beginning of the second term, along with a second committee member. Their thesis is evaluated by the two-person committee and a third examiner. Students in the non-thesis option select a permanent advisor by the beginning of the second term, and their final research papers are evaluated by the advisor and a second examiner.
Language Requirement. A working knowledge of English and French is recommended, although written work may be submitted in either language. Where appropriate, students are encouraged to acquire competence in the language of the community they choose to study; this may be achieved in the context of ANTH 640.
for full degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. An undergraduate degree with honours or specialization in anthropology or joint specialization in anthropology and sociology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required. An undergraduate degree with a major in anthropology, with a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is considered, provided that the background preparation is acceptable.
Applicants who lack certain prerequisite courses may be required to take a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.
Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take up to 24 undergraduate independent credits.
Applications to the program must be accompanied by a preliminary statement (roughly 500 words in length) of the student’s intentions regarding research, fieldwork and thesis.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
(from academic referees and submitted in a sealed and signed envelope) with
Statement of Purpose (three pages double spaced plus bibliography) should include:
Your research and fieldwork intentions,
A short presentation of relevant debates and theories with which your work will engage,
The name of a potential supervisor whose research area is compatible with your interests with whom you would like to work. It is recommended that contact be made with a potential supervisor prior to submitting the application.
Sample of writing (optional)
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Social and Cultural Anthropology
MA
Jan. 15*
Oct. 1**
n/a
*January 15 is the deadline for applicants who wish to be considered for funding. Applicants who do not require funding must submit applications by April 1. It is recommended that International students apply by March 15th to allow adequate time to obtain study permits.
**Winter: Late applications may be considered until November 15th.
Courses typically offered include:
Identity and Difference
World Anthropologies
Ethnographic Research and Ethics
New Directions in Anthropological Research (the content of this course changes each year)
for a complete list of current courses.
Master’s students are eligible for a variety of scholarships and fellowships, Research assistant and Teaching assistant positions, conference travel awards and other in-course funding.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.  Awards that are available for Master’s students include:
Faculty of Arts and Science Fellowships ($7,000)
Concordia Merit Scholarships ($10,000)
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award ($5,000)
Arts and Science Fellowship in Ethnic Studies and Social Diversity ($7,500)
Mentor Awards ($5,000)
Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards ($6,000)
Teaching Assistantships ($3200/term)
Cary Boucock Memorial Award ($500)
Susan Russell Memorial Graduate Award ($500)
Students pursuing fieldwork are eligible to apply for the
which provides financial assistance for conducting fieldwork abroad as part of their degree.
We encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. , ).
Please consult Concordia’s
page and
for additional information.
Faculty members are involved with research initiatives at the local, national and international levels. As world experts in a variety of emerging and established fields, their findings are well represented in a number of .
environment and infrastructure
Europe
food studies
gender and development
globalisation
histories of anthropology
Indigenous studies
Jewish culture
kinship and family
language and culture
Latin America
law and society
new media
North America
political anthropology
Sub-Saharan Africa
The Middle East
The Pacific
transnational links
Review an inspiring list of .
The  (SAGSA) represents the collective interests and promotes the general welfare of graduate students in the department.
SAGSA also hosts an annual interdisciplinary student conference in March. Previous editions have seen students from across Quebec and Canada present their research and foster dialogue across disciplines. Keynote speakers from past conferences have included Dr. Ram Jahku, Dr. Charmaine A. Nelson, Dr. Alexandrine Boudreault-Fournier and Dr. Daniel Dagenais.
is a bi-annual peer-reviewed publication administered under the editorial direction of graduate students in the Department of Sociology & Anthropology. The journal is strongly interdisciplinary and intended for emerging scholars of social and cultural analysis.
Our alumni are highly sought after by employment agencies, film production companies, non-profit organizations, universities and video game publishers. Recent graduates are working as artists, consultants, coordinators, creative directors, editors, executive directors, instructional technologists, interpreters, professors, program administrators, project managers, researchers, translators and writers.
Examples of organizations and institutions our alumni are currently working for include:
L’Arche Internationale
Becky Lipton Research and Consulting Ltd.
Centre Génération Emploi
EMBA McGill-HEC Montreal
Fédération des francophone de Terre-Neuve et du Labrador
Genevieve Mari Designs Inc.
Jain University
Organic Alberta
Ubisoft
Université du Québec à Montréal
Waboos Productions
College Vanier
CEGEP Dawson
College Brébeuf
Many graduates also choose to continue their studies at the
and have become faculty members in sister universities.
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2161
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University