Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/exercise-science-msc.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Exercise Science (MSc)
Exercise Science (MSc)
Master of Science (MSc)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Exercise Science?
Research in Exercise Science is booming. Researchers in the department are asking important fundamental and clinical questions, from how the body produces new muscle proteins to face challenges to how stress can influence the cardiovascular system. In continuation with the strengths of our undergraduate programs, our research agenda is strong in basic mechanistic sciences to understand how the body works, in the clinical areas of injury prevention and care, and in the chronic care of certain diseases through exercise.
Our MSc program emphasizes research. There are few courses and all courses focus on research. For an overview of the program, please download our .
Program details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 45 credits.
Courses. Students must complete four 3-credit courses (EXCI 610, 612, 624, 626).
Thesis. (EXCI 680 or EXCI 690 - 33 credits). Students must select either the Athletic Therapy (EXCI 680) or Clinical Exercise Physiology (EXCI 690) Thesis track. Students must present their thesis proposal before their thesis advisory committee, and the proposal must be approved by the committee before research activity is initiated. An oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the student’s ability to defend the thesis. A formal presentation of the thesis to the students’ peers is also required.
Admission Requirements. The admission requirement is a BSc or equivalent degree in Exercise Science or related field of study. Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation and relevance of proposed research to the expertise of the department. Enrolment in the Master’s program is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors.
If a core deficiency exists in the student’s previous undergraduate background, otherwise qualified candidates may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits.
There are no prerequisite certification requirements for Clinical Exercise Physiology. Students applying for the Athletic Therapy option should have or be preparing to acquire CATA certification. While not required, CATA certification is an asset for acceptance into the program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
One  and
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Exercise Science
MSc
Feb. 1
n/a
n/a
Courses
For the MSc program, every student must complete the following courses
EXCI 610 – Statistics and Research Design (3 credits)
EXCI 612 – Laboratory Techniques (3 credits)
EXCI 624 – Special Topics Seminar (3 credits)
EXCI 626 – Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
EXCI 680 – Thesis (Athletic Therapy) (33 credits)
OR
EXCI 690 – Thesis (Clinical Exercise Physiology) (33 credits)
Master of/Magisteriate in Science (Exercise Science) (45 credits)
Year I
Fall (6 credits) EXCI 6103, 6243
Winter (6 credits) EXCI 6123, 6263
Year II
33 credits EXCI 68033 or EXCI 69033
Course descriptions
EXCI 610 Statistics and Research Design (3 credits)
This course provides students with a background in statistics and experimental design. Students are exposed to a variety of experimental designs applicable to the exercise sciences. The course covers the application of statistical concepts in consideration of specific experimental design methods. A number of parametric and non-parametric statistics are introduced for hypothesis testing, with the opportunity to apply relevant knowledge using various statistical software packages.
EXCI 612 Laboratory Techniques (3 credits)
The course provides a theoretical awareness of measurement principles and offers practical experience in applying techniques common to advanced research methodologies in exercise science. The potential topics to be covered are geared towards the requirements of the individual in the areas of exercise physiology and athletic therapy. These may include such topics as data acquisition and analysis, electromyography, blood flow methodologies, spectrophotometry, pulmonary gas exchange, motion analysis, and tissue histochemistry.
EXCI 624 Special Topics Seminar (3 credits)
This course is designed to meet the special needs of graduate students in the exercise science areas of concentration specific to athletic therapy and clinical exercise physiology. Topics vary within the domain to account for investigation of current and developing theories. The course involves presentation, discussion, and critical analysis of information from current scientific journal literature.
EXCI 626 Thesis Proposal (3 credits)
This course provides students with the opportunity to choose a research topic and formulate a research proposal under the supervision of a thesis advisor. The proposal should include a literature review, rationale, hypothesis, and methodology including the planned research design and data analysis. Students are required to present a seminar in the Department on their research prior to the presentation of their proposal to the thesis advisory committee.
EXCI 680 Thesis (Athletic Therapy) (33 credits)
Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis will be examined by the students advisory committee before being accepted by the Department. In addition, an oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the students ability to defend the thesis.
EXCI 690 Thesis (Clinical Exercise Physiology) (33 credits)
Students are required to demonstrate their ability to carry out independent research which reflects a scientific approach. The thesis will be examined by the students advisory committee before being accepted by the Department. In addition, an oral examination will be conducted before a committee of the department to test the students ability to defend the thesis.
EXCI 698 Selected Topics in Exercise Science (3 credits)
This course explores themes within the area of Exercise Science.
The Department of Exercise Science is pleased to offer outstanding candidates financial support through a variety of awards and scholarships. All applicants are automatically considered for funding and do not need to submit applications for these awards. Some examples of awards offered are:
Faculty of Arts and Science Graduate Fellowships, which vary in value and provide 2-years of funding.
Concordia Merit Scholarships, valued at $10,000 and paid over 1-year.
Out-of-Province Fee Remissions (Masters). This award carries a value of $6,000.00 over 4 terms, and is open to newly admitted, Canadian students in a Master's research program paying out-of-province fees. *Students paying the Quebec or international tuition rates are not eligible for this award
Prospective students are also encouraged to apply for external fellowships with the , , or
depending on the field of interest.  Successful applicants who begin receiving full external fellowships/scholarships from a designated granting agency when starting their degree program at Concordia are offered a prestigious Special Entrance Award from Concordia during the first year of tenure of their External Award.
Please consult Concordia’s  and  for additional details.
Research in the department probes functional mechanisms from the molecular level to whole systems. Topics include:
injury prevention through neuromuscular control, joint stabilization, bracing, and flexibility.
physiological mechanisms of the control of blood flow and body temperature.
movement and balance control in neuromuscular disorders.
cellular and molecular adaptations to neuromuscular activity.
neural control of movement.
nutrition, hormones, and body composition.
behavioral medicine and chronic illnesses.
clinical and fundamental research on pain
The  offers research opportunities, teaching, and training for faculty and students, commmunitiy health programs, and a full service athletic therapy clinic.
The  is a fully-equipped laboratory where students can develop their practical skills and receive advice from students who are more advanced in the programs.
Review an inspiring list of  and learn about .
Key resources
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3319
Location:
7141 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University