Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/athletic-therapy.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Exercise Science/Athletic Therapy (BSc)
Exercise Science/Athletic Therapy (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Exercise Science/Athletic Therapy?
Pursue a career devoted to the health care of active individuals through to high-performance athletes. You will develop the knowledge and practical skills needed for injury prevention, emergency services, and rehabilitation. Using the state-of-the-art , a research facility focusing on health through prevention, you will undertake musculoskeletal and postural evaluation, equipment fitting and selection, prophylactic and supportive taping and wrapping, injury assessment, basic and advanced emergency life support and first aid. Your educational experience will include foundations in human anatomy, exercise physiology, biomechanics, and nutrition as well as conditioning programs and rehabilitative techniques.
Program details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations:
Specialization in Athletic Therapy* (96 credits)
*Admission is to the . Students seeking admission to the Specialization may apply for a transfer after having completed certain courses and obtained a grade point average of 3.0.
Degree requirements
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 25.000
Canadian High Schools: 80%
U.S. High Schools: 3.0
University Transfers: B
International Bacc. (IB): 30
Bacc. Français: 13/20
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes
Food for Sport
Emergency Care in Sport and Exercise
Concepts in Manual Therapy
Essentials of Exercise Testing and Training in Athletic Populations
Physiology of Exercise
Course descriptions
Curriculum requirements
Required credits are as follows:
Specialization in Athletic Therapy (96 credits)
This concentration includes specific required and optional courses. .
(Exercise Science Student Association - ESSA)
Our programs open up career paths in health- and fitness-related sectors that can include:
Clinical Exercise Physiology
Assess human movement, performance and function in healthy and clinical populations
Develop rehabilitation programs for people with various chronic diseases (cardiac, pulmonary, metabolic, oncologic, renal, etc.) and clients with injuries
Create, plan and implement a variety of fitness activities and programs for diverse populations
Promote healthy lifestyles to enhance quality of life
Conduct workplace assessment to reduce the risk of employee injury
Certified Athletic Therapist in Canada (C.A.T.[C])
Professional sport
National athletes
Clinical settings
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University