Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/academics/non-fine-arts-students.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Courses for non-Fine Arts students
Courses for non-Fine Arts students
FFAR 298 - Sexual Representation in Performing Arts. Winter 2018, Tuesdays 6:00 to 8:15 p.m.
Are you a student from another Faculty who would like to expand your knowledge of the arts and other aspects of human culture? Enrol in one of the Faculty’s special topics courses primarily or exclusively for non-Fine Arts students (course names in the
begin with FFAR).
Course offerings in 2017-18 include:
Introduction to Food Studies
Art of Film Animation
Rock'n Roll and its Roots
Art Forms of Bollywood
The City After Dark
History of 20th Century Fasion
Sexual Representation in Cinema
The Movie Soundtrack
Hip Hop: Beats, Rhymes and Life
It's Bigger than Hip Hop: The Power of Us
Censoring Popular Culture in America
Psychedelic Music
History of Visual Culture and Gaming
Sexual Representation in the Performing Arts
Dancing Bodies in Popular Culture
Minority Representation in Non-Fiction Film and Video
The Music of the Beatles
HIV/AIDS: An Interdisciplinary Introduction to Scientific, Social and Cultural Aspects of the Epidemic
Summer 2017 courses include:
Horror and Fantasy Films
Montreal's Festival Culture
The full selection of these courses changes from year to year. None of these courses have pre-requisites, and none assume any specialized background knowledge on the part of students.
Other courses in the following departments are also open to non-Fine Arts students:
Contemporary Dance (DANC)
Music (EAMT, MUSI, MHIS, MPER)
Theatre (PROD, THEA, TPER)
Please consult the courses available using the Class Search function in the Concordia Student Information System (SIS).
Online Art History (ARTH) courses offered through eConcordia may also be taken by non-Fine Arts students.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 2.705
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University