Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/human-systems-intervention.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Human Systems Intervention (MA)
Human Systems Intervention (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Human Systems Intervention?
Gain the confidence and capacity to contract with clients, evaluate group dynamics and carry out change processes. Explore the theories behind various change modalities that will enable you to facilitate and engage with stakeholders as you design an intervention.
The MA in Human Systems Intervention provides a stimulating academic environment where you will learn how to plan and implement whole system change processes. Working in close collaboration with students in your cohort, you will gain a deep understanding of how individuals, teams and systems function, learn, and change, applying that knowledge to interventions for third-party organizations.
Benefit from a concentrated
that allows you to continue working part-time while you study. Our
is designed so students can take the skills they learn in class and immediately put them into use in their workplace. The schedule also permits students to live in other cities and commute to Montreal to attend class and on-campus residencies.
In addition to the individualized support distinguished
provide during your classes and master’s project, you will also work with a field supervisor who has a great deal of experience working in the context you are interested in. Field supervisors are graduates from our program who now occupy prominent positions in a number of highly successful institutions, including Deloitte, Manulife Financial Corporation, Bombardier Inc., the McGill University Health Centre, and the House of Commons of Canada.
Program details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 45 credits. 42 credits will be in required coursework, including 15 credits of project work. The remaining 3 credits are to be completed within or outside the department. Courses that are taken to complete entrance requirements to the program may not be counted toward the program’s 45 credits. In exceptional cases, students who produce evidence of successful performance (B grade or better) in compatible coursework at other institutions may be permitted transfer credit. A maximum of 9 credits in transfer courses will be permitted.
Coursework. The program is divided into two sections of coursework, with Year I establishing the prerequisites for Year II. In addition, students will have a minimum of 3 credits of elective coursework to complete their degree requirements.
Year I provides students with fundamental understanding and frames of reference regarding learning and change processes of persons and groups, steps in the intervention process, ethical principles, and research methods. These fundamental understandings are then deepened through application in practice-based courses of Year II. The Master’s Project is intended to promote an integration of concepts and practical experience.
for full degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. Candidates must have the following:
At least two years of full-time work experience. Preference will be shown toward applicants who have work experience that is directly related to their learning goals in the program.
Completion of a bachelor’s degree with a minimum B average or a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.00.
Successful completion of a one week residential Basic Human Interaction Laboratory and have written documentation from laboratory staff that they have competency in interpersonal interaction and facilitation.
A clearly delineated career intention concerning the development of intervention expertise for a particular domain of professional practice.
Be capable of undertaking all core courses of the first year in the scheduled sequence of the program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
The Graduate Program Director may require a demonstration of English language competencies for international students or students educated abroad.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
should clearly delineate student's development of intervention expertise for a particular domain of professional practice.
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
Note: An interview is required before admission to the program.  Selected applicants will be contacted by the program office.
Successful completion of a Basic Human Interaction Laboratory is also required as a prerequisite before final admission to the program.  This laboratory is normally done after the applicant has been granted conditional admission.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to contact the  listed here for additional information and to make all necessary arrangements.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Human Systems Intervention
MA
Feb. 1
n/a
n/a
Sample classes offered:
Group Process Intervention
Learning and Individual Change Processes
Research Methods
Consultation Skills
Philosophy and Ethics of Intervention
for a complete list of current courses.
The
is a week-long residency that all prospective students are required to attend. The residency is designed to give students an opportunity to evaluate if they are able to dedicate enough of their time and resources to successfully manage the . The laboratory also emphasizes that active knowledge construction is a key component of the program and that interpersonal and group skills are crucial.
Several awards and scholarships are available for new students, and consideration for funding opportunities is automatically part of the admissions process.  In addition, students are eligible for Research Assistant positions on funded research grants, and are encouraged to network with faculty members to determine if work opportunities are available.
The Faculty of Arts and Science supports graduate students by awarding a variety of scholarships and bursaries such as:
Faculty of Arts and Science Master's Fellowship
Campaign for the New Millennium Graduate Award
Harriet and Abe Gold Endowment
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award
Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards
Please consult Concordia’s  page and  for more information.
Research-active
represent the diversity of approaches that are built into our program. They regularly publish in a variety of different venues and have won a number of awards for excellence in teaching.
Faculty research interests include:
knowledge creation in healthcare
group dynamics in extreme environments
homophobia, violence and applied interventions
lifestyle wellness coaching
collaborative creativity
planned change and innovation
wellness in the workplace
Indigenous youth leadership development
learning communities as complex adaptive systems
Our alumni are highly sought after by intergovernmental organizations, universities, multinational corporations, consulting companies, governments, community-based programs and international aid organizations. Graduates are working as advisors, consultants, writers, coaches, professors, counsellors, associates and directors.
Example of organizations and institutions our alumni are currently working for include:
A+ Transitions
Bombardier Inc.
Canadian Department of National Defense
Centre for Intercultural Learning
CGI
Conference Board of Canada
Desjardins group
Foot in the Door Consulting
Forbes
Head & Hands
House of Commons of Canada
IMIXcoCREATION
International Civil Aviation Organization
Kids Helpline
KPMG Canada
Lockheed Martin
Manulife Financial Corporation
McGill University
NewLeaf Performance
OneSmallWorld
PMC Training
Process Inc. Consulting
Project Chance
Pyxis Technologies
RBC
Rio Tinto Alcan
Royal Roads University
Ryerson University
St. Francis Xavier University
The Pillars
United Nations
Vision Coach International
“The program not only gave me tools and experience in individual, group and system change processes, it also significantly shifted my worldview and the ways I approach my personal and professional relationships.”
Juniper Belshaw
“What I valued most is the collective intelligence and wisdom of the HSI community. They are a committed group of professionals who are busy changing the world and always eager to connect and share resources.”
Cédric Jamet
“Everything I do is informed by what I learned in this program. Professors often pop into my head, offering their lenses for seeing and doing work with systems in ways that are collaborative and generative.”
Christie Huff
“What distinguishes HSI from what I have experienced before is the quality of the faculty and staff. They are a group of people committed to giving students a safe space to explore and to question.”
Fodé Beaudet
Related Programs
Key resources
Contact us
Sean Gordon
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2260
Location:
7141 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University