Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/digital-innovation-in-journalism-studies-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Digital Innovation in Journalism Studies (MA)
Digital Innovation in Journalism Studies (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master’s in Digital Innovation in Journalism Studies?
Invigorate your passion for journalism by exploring the digital ramifications of a rapidly evolving segment of the media landscape. Our one-of-a kind Master’s program pushes the boundaries of research into the future of journalism with a unique focus on digital innovation, or new approaches to journalism practice. Through seminars and lab sessions, you’ll develop critical thinking skills to enhance your understanding of how digital storytelling intersects with, and redefines traditional mediums such as print, television and radio.
Over a period of two-years, you’ll gain training in digital journalism skills combined with a strong research foundation in how to study and experiment with factual storytelling and projected journalism futures. With the guidance of our acclaimed , this combination of theory and practice will equip you with the skills to produce an innovative graduate thesis or essay.
Our MA program is grounded in both traditional and contemporary frameworks of journalism studies scholarship. It seeks to propel next generation researchers—those who are truth seekers, storytellers and makers of change—to innovate in the digital media space of today and tomorrow.
Program details
1. Credits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 45 credits.
The requirements include three core program courses.
2. Residence. The minimum residence requirement is one year (3 terms) of full-time study, or the equivalent in part-time study.
3. Courses.
Students are required to complete 15 credits of coursework, as well as one of the three options for research requirements listed below. The following core courses are required:
JOUR 601 Critical Approaches to Journalistic Thought (3 credits)
JOUR 604 Research Methods for Journalism (3 credits)
JOUR 605 Digital Innovation in Journalism (3 credits)
Choose two of the following elective courses:
JOUR 502 Introduction to Reporting (3 credits)
JOUR 503 Introduction to Visual Journalism (3 credits)
JOUR 511 Introduction to Multimedia (3 credits)
JOUR 603 Political Economy of Journalism (3 credits)
JOUR 610 International Journalism (3 credits)
JOUR 620 Journalism Ethics and the Law (3 credits)
JOUR 630 Mediating Diversity through Audio Story-telling (3 credits)
JOUR 640 Textual Approaches to Journalism (3 credits)
JOUR 645 Directed Study (3 credits)
4. Research Requirements and Options.
Option A.
JOUR 650 Journalism Readings and Proposal (6 credits)
JOUR 691 Thesis (24 credits)
OR
Option B.
JOUR 650 Journalism Readings and Proposal (6 credits)
JOUR 693 Research-Creation Thesis (24 credits)
OR
Option C.
JOUR 694 Essay (18 credits)
12 additional course credits in consultation with the student’s faculty advisor and approved by the Department’s MA program director. If approved, up to 6 credits can be taken outside the Department.
The normal requirement for admission into the MA is an undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 3.00 on a 4.30 scale. Applicants should understand that admission to the program is contingent on a sound undergraduate academic record, strong letters of reference, and a convincing statement of purpose which clearly describes their academic interest in the program and intended area of research. Applicants who do not meet the standards for admission may be required to complete a qualifying program of up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to the regular graduate program. For the qualifying program a minimum grade point average of 3.00 (B average) is required.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Three  and their attached  (2 must be from academic sources)
A Letter of Intent (five double-spaced pages) providing:
a brief overview of your university studies and what courses, professors, or scholarly work and theorists were the most influential and/or most challenging;
a brief description of the type of research you would like to undertake;
the name of a potential supervisor from our full-time faculty whose research area complements your own, and with whom you have communicated, and who agreed to work with you;
a list of courses in our program which are of particular interest to you.
Curriculum vitae (CV) including a summary of any work experience (paid or voluntary) that is relevant to your application
Sample(s) of journalism (any format), research or research-creation (10 pages maximum) (Optional)
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Digital Innovation in Journalism Studies
MA
Feb. 1*
Oct. 15*
Feb. 1*
*Late applications may be considered, please .
Examples of courses offered include:
Introduction to multimedia
Critical approaches to Journalistic thought
Digital innovation in Journalism
Mediating diversity through audio story-telling
Journalism ethics and the law
International journalism
Several awards and recruitment bursaries are available for new and current students, including Edward and Maria Roach Grad. Scholar in Journalism Studies, Reader's Digest Foundation of Canada Scholarship, the Sportsnet MA Scholarship in Journalism.
Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Students are also employed as teaching assistants for undergraduate courses. In addition, individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research budgets.
Faculty of Arts and Science Fellowships
The Faculty of Arts and Science supports graduate students by awarding one-year Masters fellowships ($7,000). Other awards available through the faculty include Concordia Merit Scholarship and Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students. We also encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. FRQSC, SSHRC).
Please also consult Concordia’s  page and .
State-of-the-art facilities provide you a vibrant digital news environment with access to radio newsrooms, a television studio and editing labs.
Students work with the latest digital equipment and software. The Equipment Depot houses  where you can reserve production equipment, such as Canon XA25 TV camera kits, kits for Canon 5D camera kits for photography and GoPro cameras, as well as Jn Roland 09 recorders for audio and written assignments.
The Learning Center also has numerous resources available, including:
a dubbing room for the duplication of multiple media formats
a complete selection of CD sound effects
8 OS X Apple computers with Internet access
an extensive video archive
Faculty members are former or currently working journalists. They bring practical experience into the classrooms and are dedicated to producing professional journalists trained to ask important and critical questions about our world.
Their research and creation interests include:
Documentary
Long form narrative and literary journalism
Investigative and data journalism
Audio podcasting
Digital storytelling
Journalism  law and ethics
Political economy of media
Issues of race, gender and ethnicity
Science journalism
New models of journalism
See examples of .
Our graduates move onto PhD training (academic path), teaching positions, advanced journalistic projects (e.g., long-form or investigative), or work at research-intensive communication companies and NGOs.
Key resources
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 5283
Location:
7141 Sherbrooke Street West,  Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University