Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/theological-studies-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Theological Studies (MA)
Theological Studies (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master’s in Theological Studies?
From its modest beginnings in the mid-1st century to its rise as the world’s biggest religion, Christianity’s role within society is in constant evolution. With the Church now operating in a pluralistic society, we need academic researchers more than ever to respectfully approach the history of theology while maintaining an eye on the future.
The MA in Theological Studies offers you the chance to explore the relationships between varieties of religious experience and human society. Positioning itself in the humanities, our program provides an interdisciplinary environment for advanced research by using tools and methodologies present in other disciplines such as philosophy, history and languages.
You’ll join a vibrant community of researchers and
who will encourage you to go beyond established disciplinary boundaries as you examine the function of theology and faith in a secular era.
Our diverse student body is composed of individuals with a variety of religious backgrounds, or no religious backgrounds at all, as well as people who have questions about faith and spirituality. Our alumni are well-placed to continue in the field by pursuing doctoral studies or working in various sectors of the society.
Program Details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully qualified candidate is required to complete 45 credits.
Students may enter one of the two options, A or B, outlined below.
You may choose one of :
Option A: MA with thesis
Option B: MA with applied project in Theology
We encourage students who have a rich background in Theological Studies and plan to continue their studies at the doctoral level to write a thesis (option A).
Admission Requirements. A solid undergraduate preparation with a range of competence similar to that demanded of Major students at Concordia, and a minimum B average in their undergraduate studies. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Admission into the program is on recommendation of the Graduate Studies Committee.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Language Requirements. Thesis proposals which depend on special linguistic skills will be accepted only from students competent in the appropriate languages.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose (1 page maximum) should indicate why the applicant is interested in the program and which areas he or she hopes to specialize in
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
All applications must be submitted to the .
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Theological Studies
MA
March 15
Oct. 15
Feb. 15
Late applications will be considered until July 15 (Fall) and Nov 1 (winter). Applicants who wish to be considered beyond the published deadline may not be eligible for funding.
Courses typically offered include:
Method in Theology
Theological Hermeneutics
Methods in Biblical Studies
Elective courses in various areas of specialization of the professors
The department offers one or two financial packages per year for outstanding students applying to enter the MA in Theological Studies full-time in the fall (valued at $7,000). To be considered, your complete application should be submitted by January 15.
Financial aid is also available to students interested in Teaching or Research Assistantships (valued between $2,000 - $6,000). Contact the Graduate Program Director or your supervisor for more information on these opportunities.
Please also consult Concordia’s
page and .
Choose your supervisor from amongst . Speak to the
to discuss the process of selecting a supervisor.
Faculty interests include:
interpretation theory, historical theology, theological methodology, and biblical methods
biblical periods, biblical texts, the patristic age, Gnostic and apocryphal literature, Medieval and Reformation periods
religion and politics, church-state relations
fundamental and applied ethics, spirituality, and contemporary theologians
cross disciplinary studies, for example Bible and politics, ethics and Bible
Review an inspiring list of
and student-produced multi-disciplinary journal, .
Our graduates have gone on to have successful careers in such areas as:
Provincial or federal government: Ethicists providing consulting services on various ethical issues (e.g. assisted dying, bioethics, etc)
Health care: manager of multi-million-dollar grant helping families with loved ones with mental illness to navigate the healthcare system; hospital chaplains; Spiritual animators in nursing care facilities
Education: teachers of Ethics and Religious Culture courses at all levels of pre-university education; CEGEP/College teachers of Humanities
Non-profit sector: employees with a charitable organization offering social services
Related Programs
Key resources
Contact us
Gabriel Desjardins
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2475
Location:
2140 Bishop St., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2E9
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University