Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/human-environment.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Human Environment (BA)
Human Environment (BA)
Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Offered by:
,
Why study Human Environment?
Explore how geography influences human behavior and examine the impact of human activity on the environment. As a geographer, your knowledge of this complex relationship will lead you towards creative solutions for some of the most important issues we face today: climate change, biodiversity loss, natural resource management and sustainability.
Through labs, lectures and projects, you will:
Study the relationships between people and places: what places mean, how places shape our lives
Examine the causes and consequences of environmental change
Consider the role and significance of social and environmental justice issues
Identify approaches to support the efficient, equitable and sustainable use of resources
Learn to gather, analyze and interpret statistical data
Acquire technical skills  in computerized mapping and Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
After graduation, your knowledge and technical skills will prepare you for careers in areas such as climate change adaptation policy, environmental impact assessment, biodiversity conservation and protected areas planning, and urban and regional planning.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations:
Honours in Human Environment (60 credits)
Specialization in Human Environment (60 credits)
Major in Human Environment (42 credits)
Minor in Human Environment (30 credits)
More information
Cegep Students
No specific courses are required beyond a DEC
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may changedepending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): 21.000 (Honours: 28.000)
Canadian High Schools: 72% (Honours: 85%)
U.S. High Schools: 2.5 (Honours: 3.3)
University Transfers: C+ (Honours: B+)
International Bacc. (IB): 27 (Honours: 33)
Bacc. Français: 11/20 (Honours: 14/20)
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Sample classes:
Place, Space and Identity
The Natural Environment: Land and Life
Environment and Society
Environment: Historical and Cultural Perspectives
Landscape Ecology
Indigenous Resource Management
The Climate System
More information
for a complete list of current courses
on the departmental website
feature the latest technology that will give you experience with the tools that professionals use in the field. These include:
A cartography studio
Climate Modelling Lab
Landscape Ecology and Environmental Impact Assessment Lab
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Lab
Human Environment alumni have established careers in a range fields including environmental impact assessment, resource conservation, urban and regional planning, housing and community development, and teaching. Recent graduates have become researchers with the NAFTA Commission for Environmental Cooperation and the Secretariat of the UN Convention on Biodiversity.
.
Benefits of studying geography at Concordia:
Curriculum focused on the Environment
New multidisciplinary Environmental Science
Strong emphasis on Urban Issues and Public Policy
An emphasis on techniques and skill building in cartography, computer design, geographic information systems, statistics, field work
Student centred teaching
Strong emphasis on undergraduate teaching
Courses taught by dedicated full and part-time faculty
Courses given in both the day and evening to accommodate students who work
We cater to non-conventional students
Excellent student advising program
Active Geography student association
Our focus is on the human environment, specifically the ongoing radical transformation of the earth by human action. The program is designed to:
sustain a critical awareness of the complexity and interconnectedness within and between cultural and natural systems
foster an understanding of the causes and consequences of environmental change
identify effective practices and policies for environmental management
develop student skills in critical thinking and writing
provide students with important technical skills, such as qualitative and quantitative research methods and Geographic Information Systems.
For all Geography BA programs there is a common 12 credit core in the first year and a common 12 credit core in the second year. The program is made up of courses in human geography, physical geography and techniques. In the first year there is one introductory course in each area followed by a course which integrates all three. At the second year, students take courses in all three areas; while in the final year all courses integrate both physical and human geography.
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University