Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/faculty.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
Faculty
Philip C.
Abrami, PhD
Director & Professor, Education
Office:
Faubourg Ste-Catherine Building,1610 St. Catherine W.
Phone:
(514) 848-2424 ext. 2102
Email:
Dr. Philip C. Abrami is a Concordia University Research Chair and the Director of the Centre for the Study of Learning and Performance. His awards include: CADE Award of Excellence in Research, the W.J. McKeachie Career Achievement Award, the Vineberg Research Prize in Psychology, and the CSSHE Research Award. He has authored several books, including Classroom Connections: Understanding and Using Cooperative Learning and Statistical Analysis for the Social Sciences: An Interactive Approach. He has published dozens of book chapters and journal articles in the leading educational and psychology journals. His interests include: social psychology of education, instructional effectiveness, technology integration and research integration. His current work focuses on: research integrations and primary investigations in support of applications of educational technology in distance and higher education, in early literacy, and in the development of higher order thinking skills.
Education
PhD, Social Psychology, University of Manitoba
Professional experience
Reviewer and editorial board
member
for several journals; member of the NEP
Tomorrow's Schools Today initiative, member
of the research committee for the Enhanced Learning
Initiative, etc.
Teaching activities
Courses taught
Methods of inquiry; learning theories; and met-analysis
Research activities
Learning Toolkit; Early Reading Literacy
Disability and Special Needs
CanKnow: Canadian Network for Knowledge
Utilization
Critical Thinking
Current projects
Software development and research
for
enhancing the emerging literacy skills of
young children; electronic process and showcase
portfolios; primary, secondary & postseasonal
technology integration; and systematic
reviews
of research for
evidence-based practice and
knowledge
mobilization
Representative publications
Abrami, P,C., Poulsen, C., &
Chambers, B. (in press). Teacher motivation
to implement an educational innovation: Factors
differentiating users and non-users of
cooperative
learning. Educational Psychology.
Bernard, R.M., Brauer, A., Abrami,
P.C., & Surkes, M. (in press). The development
of a questionnaire for predicting online
learning
achievement. Distance Education.
Kakkar, M., Abrami, P.C., &
Zitkute, L. (in press). Self-regulation in a
portfolio environment. Canadian Journal
of Education.
Bures, E., Abrami, P.C. &
Amundsen, C. (2002). Motivation to Learn via
Computer Conferencing: Exploring how Task-specific
Motivation and CC Expectations are
related to
Student Acceptance of
Learning via CC. Journal
of Educational Computing Research, 27(3),
247-262.
Abrami, P.C. (2001). Understanding
and promoting complex learning using technology.
In P. Abrami (Ed.) Understanding and
promoting
complex learning using
technology [Theme issue]. Educational Research and Evaluation, 7(2-3),
113-136.
Chambers, B., Abrami, P., McWhaw,
K., & Therrien, M.C. (2001). Developing
a computer-assisted tutoring program to help
children at risk learn to read. In P.
Abrami
(Ed.) Understanding and
promoting complex learning
using
technology [Special issue on Instructional
Technology]. Educational Research and Evaluation,
7(2-3), 223-239.
Lou, Y., Abrami, P.C., &
d’Apollonia, S. (Fall, 2001). Small group
and individual learning with technology: A meta-analysis. Review of Educational Research, 71(3),
449-521.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University