Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/educational-technology-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Educational Technology (MA)
Educational Technology (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Educational Technology?
The MA programme in Educational Technology prepares you for careers as designers and developers of instructional materials, professionals who implement technology in educational settings, and as performance consultants who help organizations with challenges that go beyond instruction and technology.
While preparing for these roles, you learn how to assess needs and identify the cause of performance gaps; design and implement instructional programs and other types of solutions, and evaluate the outcomes of these programs.  These aspects represent what educational technology is, a field that facilitates learning and improving performance by creating, using, and managing appropriate technological processes and resources.
Course-related projects that emerge from partnerships established by our  with local, national and international start-ups, NGOs, corporations, schools, colleges, CEGEPS, and universities—provide opportunities to link classroom learning with its application in the real world.
To begin the process of launching your career, you can participate in our internship option. With a wide network of for-profit, non-profit, government partners to choose from, you have the opportunity to work in an environment that appeals to your specific interests.
The program teaches you to:
Analyze organizational contexts to identify underlying opportunities to improve individual and organizational performance through instructional (training) and non-instructional interventions (such as incentive systems, management, workplace design).
Prepare individual instructional programs for maximum effectiveness with the intended learners, achieving the desired outcomes, and addressing the practical challenges in learning situations.
Create a performance improvement campaign or curriculum that links several related instructional programs and other resources to achieve a complex goal while taking a systemic approach to developing competence among learners.
Apply sound learning theories and results of educational research to solve performance problems and guide instructional design.
Develop competence with the technologies used to create and deliver instructional and educational materials online, learning materials for classes, workbooks and multimedia materials.
Appropriately choose technologies for instructional and educational purposes.
Evaluate learning programs and educational materials.
Lead instructional projects and educational technology groups.
Conduct research that leads to further developments in the field.
Program details
You may choose one of .
Option A: MA with thesis or thesis-equivalent
Option B: MA with non-thesis internship
We encourage students who plan to conduct field research or evaluation studies, or who wish to go on to doctoral studies, to pursue option A. Students who want to develop professional skills in an extended practicum with corporate, school, government or NGO clients are advised to pursue option B.
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts with Thesis (Option A)
Admission Requirements. Entry into this program is based on the individual backgrounds of applicants, who should possess a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with at least a major or the equivalent in any subject. An average of at least a B in the major or equivalent is required. Students from the Diploma in Instructional Technology (who have not graduated from the Diploma) may apply for admission with advanced standing. A maximum of 15 credits may be transferred. However, no financial credit will be given. An interview may be required.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Master of/Magisteriate in Arts without Thesis (Option B)
Admission Requirements. Entry into this program is based on the individual backgrounds of applicants, who should possess a bachelor’s/baccalaureate degree with at least a major or the equivalent in any subject. An average of at least a B in the major or equivalent is required. Students from the Diploma in Instructional Technology (who have not graduated from the Diploma) may apply for admission with advanced standing. A maximum of 15 credits may be transferred. However, no financial credit will be given. An interview may be required.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Prior to applying, please  to request the Educational Technology program booklet.
Your completed application will include:
Application form (signed) and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose (500 to 700 words) outlining why you want to enter this program, what your career goals are and how you feel this program will meet those goals
for all post-secondary institutions attended
, permanent resident status or refugee status (if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Educational Technology
MA
Jan. 15*
Sept. 15
n/a
Courses typically offered include:
Learning Theories
Research Methods
Fundamentals of Instructional Design
Fundamentals of Human Performance Technology
for a complete list of current courses.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.  Teaching assistantships are available and awarded to students on a competitive basis. Research assistant positions also exist for funded research but cannot be guaranteed. Individual faculty members determine if work opportunities are available based on their own research initiatives.
Other funding opportunities that are available include the Cheryl-Mackenzie Award, as well as multiple scholarships and fellowships offered through the Faculty of Arts and Science.
Students presenting their research at academic conferences are also eligible to receive conference travel funding.
Please also consult Concordia’s  page and .
Our faculty members are a diverse group of researchers committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. They are well known for their strong research profiles that inform their teaching and afford graduate students the opportunity to work on cutting edge research.
Faculty research interests include:
pedagogical integration of technology
distance education and online learning
management of workplace learning and communication groups
digital media theory and production
collaborative action research
communities of practice and online communities
innovative emerging technologies for learning and performance
Take advantage of resources that are for the exclusive use of graduate students at our state-of-the-art . Benefit from your own guaranteed research space, as well as privileged access to computer workstations and a media development lab.
Review an inspiring list of .
Many of our graduate students and alumni have been published in a multitude of distinguished journals, including the Canadian Journal of Learning and Technology, the European Journal of Training and Development, the Journal of Information Technology Education, Review of Educational Research, Computers and Education, Educational Technology Research and Development and Personal Construct Theory and Practice.
The
(DOEIGSA) supports initiatives that encourage student well-being in the department and the university at large. The DOEIGSA aims to engage students in social issues, inside and outside the university, which are pertinent to education.
The Graduate Symposium in the Department of Education (GSDE) is an annual event that invites students across Canada to present their research. The GSDE is a student-run conference and offers you the opportunity to learn more about grant applications and event planning.
According to economic forecasts for the coming decade, educational technologists have strong employment prospects.  Our alumni find great success in a wide range of professional careers in instructional design, performance consultancy, and project management.  Students are also well placed to continue in the field by pursuing doctoral studies.
Recent graduates can also be found working as:
training and support analysts
training managers
media developers
e-learning developers
curriculum developers
pedagogical consultants
process analyst
pedagogical/training consultants
manager of learning environments
educational technology advisors
Join our active Alumni Association with hundreds of members and large network of graduates that work in all four corners of the world.
We have an extensive list of established partnerships with employers, including:
Aviation industry
Cultural institutions
Education
Food industry
Gaming industry
Health sciences
Media industry
Public sector and NGOs
Retail
Technology
Telecommunications
Transportation
Our internships coordinator can help place you in a work environment you are interested in pursuing.
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2030
Location:
1610 Ste-Catherine Street W.,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 2S2
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University