Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/mathematics-statistics-mamsc.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Mathematics (MA, MSc)
Mathematics (MA, MSc)
Master of Arts (MA), Master of Science (MSc)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Mathematics?
From big data to corporate finance, intelligence analysis to operational research, professionals with mathematics degrees  tackle complex problems in an array of fast-evolving fields.  With over thirty , you will benefit  from close working relationships within  Montreal, an international research hub in the area of mathematical sciences. By the end of the program, you will have advanced your research skills, and ready to apply mathematical expertise in the industry or pursue doctoral studies.
You will benefit from Concordia’s association with the
(Institut des sciences mathématiques) and the
(Centre de recherches mathématiques), by choosing to take courses at any of the four universities in Montreal, register to workshops and participate in collaborative projects throughout your studies. Broaden your research network by participating in
and presentations given by leading  professors, post-doctoral fellows and adjunct faculty members.
The department engages with the community, by hosting or participating in mathematic competitions for elementary to high school students or by sponsoring math competitions. Enrich your graduate experience and take part in
activities.
Program Details
Students may enter one of the two options below. The choice of the option, the selection of courses and the topic of the thesis, must be approved by the Graduate Program Director.
Students choose one of the following fields of study:
Actuarial Mathematics & Mathematical Finance
Analysis, Partial Differential Equations & Applied Mathematics
Dynamical Systems
Mathematical Physics & Differential Geometry
Number Theory & Computational Algebra
Statistics & Probability
.
Admission Requirements. Applicants must have a Bachelor’s degree with Honours in Mathematics, or equivalent. Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Promising candidates who lack the equivalent of an Honours degree in Mathematics may be admitted after having completed a qualifying program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
and
Statement of purpose (maximum two pages) should:
describe your research interests and past research experience, if any
identify specific professors or research groups in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics with whom or which you want to work
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted .
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Mathematics
MA
Feb. 1
n/a
n/a
Mathematics
MSc
Feb. 1
n/a
n/a
The Contributions of Mathematics to Intellectual Life
Differential Geometry
Probability Theory
Transform Calculus
for a complete list of courses and the the .
The department offers financial support to approximately 25-30 full-time M.Sc. and Ph.D. students per year. It also awards  internal scholarships through organized competitions. Some scholarships and bursaries are also available through .
In addition, the Faculty of Arts and Science supports graduate students by awarding one-year Masters fellowships ($7,000). Other awards available through the faculty include:
Concordia Merit Scholarship
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship
Harriet and Abe Gold Endowment
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award
John W. O'Brien Graduate Fellowship
Clara Strozyk Scholarship
Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students. We also encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. NSERC, FRQNT).
Please also consult Concordia’s  page and .
Our faculty members specialize in several research areas:
Actuarial Mathematics
Algebra
Analysis
Applied Mathematics
Dynamical Systems
Financial Mathematics
Geometry
Mathematics Education
Mathematical Physics
Number Theory
Probability
Statistics
Learn more about each
and get to know our .
The Department is part of the
(), a unique centre of excellence for graduate training in Mathematics, combining the resources and expertise of the mathematics departments at the four Montreal-area universities, as well as Université de Sherbrooke and Université Laval.
The Department is also associated with the
(CRM), a NSERC National Research Centre whose mission is to provide leadership in the development of mathematical sciences in Canada.
To foster interdisciplinary research and cross-specialty collaborations, we maintain close ties with the , as well as other departments and universities. A wide range of research seminars and lectures are held regularly throughout the year, many of them being organized in conjunction with other Montreal universities, the ISM and the CRM.
See what our students are working on. Review an inspiring list of .
In addition to  academic research, students who graduate with a master’s in mathematics find numerous career opportunities in different fields of expertise, such as:
High school teaching
Financial analysis
Risk management
Investment banking
Software engineering
Market research
Management consultancy
Operational research
Data analysis
Computer programming
Scientific research and development
Related Programs
Contact us
Debbie Arless
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3250
Location:
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2V8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University