Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/economics-ma.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Economics (MA)
Economics (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Economics?
Deepen your understanding of different aspects of economics through a combination of theoretical and practical applications. Plan, manage and execute an in-depth research project that allows you to examine a wide array of subjects, from highly abstract topics to empirical problems that use real-world data.
The MA in Economics offers a stimulating academic environment where you will have the opportunity to develop advanced mathematical and theoretical foundations in economic theory and econometrics. Course work and acclaimed
provide rigorous technical training in quantitative methods and their applications, giving you the skills to carry out a detailed economic analysis of a topic of your choice.
Our distinguished faculty members have published in a number of , including Econometrica, the American Economic Review, the Journal of Political Economy, the Review of Economic Studies, the Journal of Econometrics, the Journal of Economic Theory, and the Journal of Monetary Economics.
Apply to the
after your first semester of studies to gain valuable work experience. Designed primarily for individuals who want to enter the workforce after graduation, our program is open to both Canadian and international students. Examples of past placement sites include financial institutions, multinational companies, government agencies and pharmaceutical corporations.
Program details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. A fully-qualified candidate is required to complete a minimum of 45 credits.
Courses. A fully-qualified candidate is required to take three 3-credit courses Microeconomics I (ECON 612), Macroeconomics I (ECON 615) and Econometrics I (ECON 680) and five additional 3-credit courses selected in consultation with the Graduate Program Director.
Research Paper. Each student must write a research paper (ECON 703, 21 credits) demonstrating an application of knowledge in a particular area of economics. The topic of the research paper must be approved by the Graduate Program Director and a full-time member of the Department who is prepared to act as supervisor. The research paper is prepared under the guidance of the supervisor who must approve and recommend the final version for examination by an independent member of the Department appointed by the Graduate Program Director.
Fields of Specialization. Each MA student is required to complete one field of specialization by successfully completing 2 courses from the sequences offered in any of the following areas: Econometrics, Economic Development; Financial Economics; Industrial Economics; International Economics; Labour Economics; Macroeconomics; Microeconomics; Public Economics.
Admission Requirements. An honours degree in economics, from a recognized university, or the equivalent, with a cumulative GPA of 3.00 is required. An applicant may be required to take up to 12 prerequisite undergraduate credits in addition to, but as part of, the regular graduate program. Some applicants may be required to pass a qualifying program, as a condition for entry into the regular MA program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose should outline (1 to 2 pages):
your goals for enrolling in the program
what makes you a good candidate for the program
your expectations from your studies in the program and
what you plan to achieve in the program.
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Economics
MA
Jan. 15
June 1
n/a
Fall: Late applications will be considered until April 1.
Winter: Late applications will be considered until August 1.
Applicants who wish to be considered beyond the published deadline may not be eligible for funding.
Courses typically offered include:
Microeconomics
Macroeconomics
Game Theory
Econometric Theory
Applied Econometrics
Monetary Economics
Growth and Development
Financial Economics
Environmental Economics
Labour Economics
Risk Management
Political Economics
Economic Design
Experimental Economics
for a complete list of current courses.
Teaching assistantships, valued at approximately $1,000 per term, are available and awarded on a competitive basis.
Graduate students may also receive a number of departmental scholarships, including the Professor Jaleel Ahmad Scholarship and the Balvir and Ranjna Singh Memorial Graduate Award. Scholarship amounts range from $1,500 to $3,500.
The Faculty of Arts and Science supports graduate students by offering fellowships and out-of- province fee remission awards. Other funding opportunities available through the faculty include Concordia Merit Scholarship and Conference Travel Awards.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.
Please also consult the
page and .
Students who wish to have work experience before going into the job market can apply to the MA Co-operative Program. In order to qualify, students must complete one semester, be in good academic standing and get the approval of the Graduate Program Director. Once accepted into the program, students take two work terms in addition to their academic semesters.
The co-operative program is open to international students, but Canadian citizenship is required for many government positions. Past employers include:
Agriculture and Agri-Food
Bank of Canada
Bank of Montreal
Black and Decker
Bombardier
Canadian Pacific Railways
Canadian Space Agency
Environment Canada
Human Resources and Skills Development Canada
Hydro-Quebec
Industry Canada
Laurentian Bank
Pfizer Pharamceutical
Pratt and Whitney
Revenue Canada
Royal Bank of Canada
Scotia McLeod
Statistics Canada
TD Bank
Transport Canada
William Mercer
Members of our research-active faculty are affiliated with the  and the . They have received high honours from the Canada Research Chairs Program, and been awarded the Mongolian Government’s Science Leader Award and the prestigious Marie Curie Fellowship in Research.
Faculty research interests include:
economic development
economic dynamics
econometrics
international trade and finance
financial and monetary economics
computational economics
environmental and natural resources
game theory
industrial organization
information economics
market design
labour economics
experimental economics
public economics
The
(EGSA) aims to promote a stimulating academic and social atmosphere by organizing social events, facilitating seminars and other activities.
Seminars organized by the EGSA invite faculty members and graduate students to present their research in economics.  Advanced MA students are also invited to present their own research poster at the annual Economics Spring Poster Day, which allows students to network with fellow students, faculty and alumni.
Our alumni are highly sought after by banks, airlines, intergovernmental organizations, asset management firms and trade associations. Recent graduates are working as insurance advisors, financial analysis managers, corporate compliance analysts and project managers.
Examples of employers where our alumni currently work include:
Air Canada
BFL Canada
CIBC Asset Management
International Air Transport Association
National Bank of Canada
Publipage
Saputo Inc.
Toronto-Dominion Bank
United Nations
.
Related Programs
Key resources
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3901
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University