Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/religion.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Religion (BA)
Religion (BA)
Bachelor of Arts (BA)
Offered by:
,
Why study Religions and Cultures?
People’s religious beliefs and cultural orientations touch on the most fundamental aspects of human existence: health, illness and death; sexuality; gender roles; power dynamics; social relationships; and the search for meaning. In an increasingly interconnected world, the ability to fully respect and understand the religious and cultural realities of others is powerful indeed. By developing an informed appreciation of different cultures and values, you’ll position yourself to engage with the world as a truly global citizen – and gain insight into your own assumptions, as an individual and a member of a group. If you consider yourself a social activist, the programs in Religions and Cultures may be the place for you!
The study of religion at Concordia is characterized by a deep respect for diversity of culture, gender, and sexual orientation and by an emphasis on field work. You’ll have the opportunity to visit places of worship and meet people connected to Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Jainism, and Buddhism in Montreal.  You will have the opportunity to study languages spoken across the world.
Program Details
A Bachelor of Arts degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90 – 120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations:
Honours in Religion (60 credits)
Major in Religion (42 credits)
Minor in Religion (24 credits)
Cegep Students
No specific courses are required beyond a DEC
Additional Requirements
Letter of intent outlining the purpose and reason for selecting this program/discipline is needed when applying to Honours.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC): DEC (Honours: 28.000)
Canadian High Schools: 70% (Honours: 85%)
U.S. High Schools: 2.5 (Honours: 3.3)
University Transfers: C (Honours: B+)
International Bacc. (IB): 27 (Honours: 33)
Bacc. Français: 11/20 (Honours: 14/20)
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
We encourage students to develop an understanding of multiple religious traditions in their regional and historical contexts. Whatever the student's special focus, the informed appreciation of the beliefs and values of multiple cultures is an essential dimension of education for today's world.
Our department is distinguished by its interdisciplinary field areas spanning multiple traditions, each supported by four or more members of the faculty:
Contemporary Religion and Popular Culture
Contemporary Theory, Ethics, and Philosophy
Religions and Cultures in Late Antiquity
Women, Gender, and Sexuality
Explore the fields of study and the
that form our program curriculum.
Sample Classes
Goddesses and Religious Images of Women
Cults and Religious Controversy
Religions of Tibet
Food and Religion
History of Satan
for a complete list of current courses.
As a student of religion, you’ll have the opportunity to benefit from:
Our disciplinary depth and interdisciplinary breadth
Faculty who have won national and university awards for research and teaching
Connecting with academics who attend the international conferences we host
The Centre for Iranian Studies and two endowed chairs, one  in Canadian Jewish Studies and the other in Hindu Studies
A world-class collection of libraries in Montreal
You’ll be well-positioned to become an effective, high-impact professional in fields including law, medicine, international development, international business, journalism and social work. Our graduates have found success in:
Humanitarian work (NGOs)
Teaching English as a second language
Psychology
Supporting the integration of refugees
Public advocacy
Other Religions and Cultures students have also gone on to graduate studies in the field.
Related programs
Key resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University