Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/psychology-phd.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Psychology (PhD)
Psychology (PhD)
Doctorate (PhD)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Doctorate in Psychology?
Deepen your understanding of psychological theories and advanced methodologies in psychological research as you make meaningful contributions to scientific knowledge and refine your skills in scientific writing. Participate in various
that will connect you with leading researchers from around the world.
The PhD in Psychology offers a research-intensive learning environment where you will develop into an expert in one of our department’s four broad areas of research, including , , , and . Work alongside research-active
who have published in a multitude of prestigious journals, such as Psychological Review, Journal of Abnormal Psychology and American Psychologist, Science, and Nature.
Choose from one of two program options based on your own professional and academic objectives. Students in the
receive advanced training in independent research, and are expected to publish articles on their research in scientific journals, and to present their findings at national and international scientific conferences. This option is well-suited for students who wish to pursue careers in research and academia.
The
involves the same requirements as the Research Option, and also provides professional training in the delivery of psychological services. Students enrolled in this option take part in the , a year-long paid internship where students employ a range of techniques and theoretical orientations in a professional placement site. The option is also fully accredited by the Ordre des Psychologues du Quebec, as well as the Canadian Psychological Association.
Program details
Two program options exist. The Research Option emphasizes independent research and scholarship, and prepares students for research careers. Students in the Research and Clinical Training Option fulfill the same research requirements as other students, but also train to become mental health professionals.
for complete degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. Admission to the PhD degree requires a master’s degree in psychology from a recognized university. Admission to the MA degree requires an honours degree in psychology or its equivalent. Enrolment in these programs is limited in part by the availability of research supervisors and, for the Research and Clinical Training Option, by space in that option.
Applicants are selected on the basis of past academic record, letters of recommendation, the results of the Graduate Record Examination (optional, but highly recommended), and the relevance of their proposed research to the research expertise of the faculty. Students successfully completing their master’s program in psychology at Concordia University need submit only an application form and letters of recommendation when applying for the doctoral degree. Psychology graduate courses are not open to graduate-level independent students, except in specific circumstances as defined by the department.
Upon recommendation of their thesis supervisor, students enrolled in the Master of Arts (Psychology) program at Concordia University who have completed a minimum of 12 credits of graduate level course work and who have shown high academic performance and potential through performance in research may apply for accelerated admission to doctoral studies without submitting a master’s thesis. Approval for accelerated admission must be obtained from the student’s thesis committee and the graduate admissions subcommittee by August 15 to allow entry into the PhD program in the Fall term. Students in the Research and Clinical Training option may not obtain accelerated admission to the PhD program from MA Year I, but may apply for accelerated admission, upon recommendation of their thesis supervisor, from MA Year II.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
for applicants to the Research and Clinical Training Option
Statement of Purpose (1500 words) describing applicant's academic interest, primary area of concentration and research goals
The Graduate Record Examination (GRE, aptitude and advanced) is recommended, but not required
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures, and the
for completing the application.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Psychology
PhD
Dec. 15
n/a
n/a
Courses typically offered include:
Special Topics in Clinical and Health Psychology
Special Topics in Cognitive Science
Special Topics in Human Development
Special Topics in Behavioural Neuroscience
for a complete list of current courses.
Students receive a minimum of $17,500 per year in guaranteed funding during their two years of study. The average level of financial support offered to incoming students is $20,000. Funding packages are composed of some combination of scholarships, teaching assistantships, and funds from the research supervisor.  Students are encouraged to apply for all external scholarships (e.g., CIHR, NSERC, SSHRC, FRQS, FRQSC, NT).
Conference travel funding is also available for students who present their work at academic conferences.
Other awards available through the Faculty of Arts and Science include:
Concordia Merit Scholarship
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship
Concordia International Tuition Award of Excellence
Consideration for School of Graduate Studies Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.
Please also consult the department’s
and Concordia’s
pages, as well as .
Our
are well known for their strong research profiles, as well as their engagement in collaborative research projects both within the Department and University, and with other laboratories in Canada and internationally.
Faculty research interests include:
alcohol misuse
applied linguistics
autonomic functioning
circadian rhythms
cognitive development
decision making
drug abuse
eating disorders
hypnosis
language acquisition
learning and memory
lifespan development
motor control
multidimensional self-conceptions
neuropsychology
obsessive compulsive disorder
peer relations
scene perception
sexual behaviour
transition to adulthood/parenting
Review an inspiring list of . Graduate students publish in a multitude of journals as lead author or co-author. Review the individual
profiles.
The
represents the collective interests of psychology graduate students at Concordia University. In addition to organizing orientation and end of year parties, the AGSP is responsible for placing student representatives on various departmental committees.
Graduates of our programs establish careers in the academic sector, including positions in research and teaching, as well as in research and academic support service both within college, university and government agencies.  Many graduates also enter diverse careers within the private, and industrial sectors, typically related to the research focus of their graduate degree.
Our alumni work within universities, colleges, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, psychotherapy centres, contract research organizations, government agencies and police departments. Recent graduates are working as professors, research administrators, senior investigators, associate project managers and clinical co-ordinators. Graduates of the Research and Clinical Training Option are also prepared to establish practices in clinical psychology and delivery of psychological services.
Examples of companies and institutions our alumni are currently working for include:
CLINWest Research Inc.
NeuroRx Research
Marianopolis College
McGill University
Montreal Therapy Centre
Novotech
Research Institute of the McGill University Health Centre
Royal Canadian Mounted Police
University of Ottawa
University of Toronto
Key resources
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2205
Location:
7141 Sherbrooke W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 2A7
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University