Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/undergraduate/bachelor/admissions.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
/
/
Admissions
Admissions
In general, to be considered for admission you must have achieved the level of secondary education required to apply for university studies in your home province, state or country. John Molson School of Business undergraduate programs have additional admissions requirements beyond the minimum criteria required for admission to general university studies. Please see below for these requirements.
The standard advice for all applicants, regardless of their situation, is to make use of all three program choices found in the online admissions application.
Please indicate your preferred JMSB program as your first choice (BComm, BAdmin, etc.), and then indicate a second and third backup program offered by another faculty at the university. The recommended backup program to JMSB is the Certificate in Arts & Science; however, no one program is more advantageous than any other when transferring internally to JMSB from other Concordia university programs.
Admission requirements
Pre-university (Two-year)
Cegep applicants completing a two-year pre-university Diplôme d’études collégiales (DEC) must achieve a minimum overall CRC of 26.00 and an average CRC of 25.50 in mathematics. The mathematics courses considered for admission are Calculus 1 and Linear Algebra only.
Applicants are eligible for admission to JMSB once they have completed at least one of these two mathematics courses, provided the other course is completed at JMSB during the first year. However, it is recommended that applicants complete as many of the JMSB prerequisite courses as possible within their Cegep program (see Potential Course Exemptions).
Professional/technical (Three-year)
Cegep applicants completing a three-year technical DEC in a business-related field may also be eligible for admission without the mathematics profile specified above, provided they achieve a minimum overall CRC of 26.00 and achieve a minimum of 75% in the quantitative business course(s) required for their Cegep program. It is also recommended that these applicants submit their high school transcripts with their application. If admitted, applicants will be required to complete all missing prerequisite courses as elective credits at JMSB (see Potential Course Exemptions).
Note: three-year technical DEC students who have chosen to complete Calculus I and/or Linear Algebra mathematics courses must achieve an average of CRC of 25.50 in mathematics.
Potential Course Exemptions
Once applicants are admitted based on their overall CRC score and average CRC in mathematics, admitted students may be awarded course exemptions in the following Cegep courses:
Minimum grade required
Course
75% grade
Math 201–103 or 201–NYA (Concordia: MATH 209)
75% grade
Math 201–105 or 201–NYC (Concordia: MATH 208)
75% grade
Intro to Macroeconomics (Concordia: ECON 203)
75% grade
Intro to Microeconomics (Concordia: ECON 201)
Pass grade
Admitted students who do not receive exemptions for these courses in their letter of acceptance will be required to complete them as elective credits at JMSB during their first year in the program. These prerequisite courses will count for credit and will not normally prolong a JMSB degree in any way.
Applicants must be completing grade 12 in Canada with a minimum overall average of 80% and an average of 80% in mathematics in the required number of senior-level grade 12 courses.
All applicants must have completed the required mathematics and English courses (or French if they attended a French-language school) and must meet the requirements to graduate in their home province or territory:
AB/NT/NU
Five academic 30 or 31-level courses, including English (ELA 30-1)
Math 30-1 or Math 31
BC/YT
Four grade 12 academic courses, including English 12
Principles of Mathematics 12 or Pre-Calculus 12 or Calculus 12
MB
Five academic grade 12 40S courses, including ELA Focus 40S
Pre-Calculus 40S or Calculus 40S
NB
Five appropriate senior level courses numbered 120, 121, or 122, including English 121 or 122
Math 121 or 122 or Pre-Calculus A 120, Pre-Calculus B 120 or Calculus 120
NL
Honours or Academic Status in a minimum of five grade 12 senior-level courses, including English 3201
Mathematics 3204 or Mathematics 3205 or Mathematics 3207
NS
Five appropriate senior level academic or advanced courses, including English
Academic or Advanced Math 12 or Pre-calculus 12
NB
Five appropriate senior level courses numbered 120, 121, or 122, including English 121 or 122
Math 121 or 122 or Pre-Calculus A 120, Pre-Calculus B 120 or Calculus 120
ON
Six grade 12 U and/or M courses, including English 4U
Calculus and Vectors 4U or Advanced Functions 4U
PE
Five grade 12 academic subjects numbered 611 or 621, including English
Mathematics 611B
SK
Five grade 12 academic courses, two of which must be English Language Arts (ELA 30 A) and (ELA 30 B)
Pre-Calculus 30 or Calculus 30
Applicants must be completing grade 12 with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.30 scale) and an average GPA of 3.0 in mathematics courses. Final grade 11 and mid-term grade 12 results are used to calculate admissions averages.
Advanced Placement (AP) courses will only be assessed once the applicant’s file is complete. SAT or ACT scores are not required for admission; admissions is based solely on high school grades. A GED is not accepted in lieu of a high school diploma.
Applicants must have completed at least three O levels with an overall average of B, including a B in mathematics, as well as at least two A levels with an overall average of C, including a C in mathematics. Two AS levels may be considered equivalent to one A level, unless otherwise stated.
Applicants from the International Baccalaureate (IB) diploma program must achieve an overall predicted score of 28 points as well as a predicted grade of 5/7 in standard level (SL) mathematics
A  may also be required.
* Applicants who have completed higher level (HL) mathematics may be eligible for course exemptions upon admission, though not advanced credit.
Applicants must have completed the Baccalauréat with an overall score of 13/20 and an average score of 13/20 in mathematics courses, on their first attempt.
Applicants are assessed on their academic performance in the three trimesters of Première and first trimester of Terminale.
A  may also be required.
* Applicants who have completed série économique et sociale (ES) option mathematiques or série scientifique (S) mathematics may be eligible for course exemptions upon admission, though not advanced credit.
Applicants from countries and education systems not specified above are generally admissible if they meet the academic and English-language proficiency requirements for admission to Concordia University, provided they achieve above-average grades overall and in pre-university mathematics courses in their home country. This would translate roughly to a 3.00 CGPA (on a 4.30 scale) or the equivalent of a "B" grade at Concordia University.
In most cases, final grade 11 and mid-term grade 12 results are used to calculate admissions averages. A  may also be required.
Admission as a mature student may be granted to Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents, subject to the following conditions:
Applicants must have reached the age of 21 by August 1 or December 1 of a given year, to enter the University in the following September or January, respectively.
Applicants must demonstrate that they have the potential to successfully undertake undergraduate courses, as they do not meet the normal academic requirements for admission: the Quebec Diplôme d’études collégiales (DEC), or equivalent.
Applicants must have been out of full-time academic study for at least 24 months in total since reaching the age of 18. Applicants who have been out of school for only 12 months are also admissible, provided that they have had no unfavourable academic record in the previous 24 months.
It is recommended that mature-entry applicants submit a résumé and a letter of intent.
Applicants must have 5 years of relevant business work experience, or have completed the following prerequisite courses, or their equivalent, with a B- average overall and in MATH 208 and 209 specifically:
MATH 208 (Fundamentals of Mathematics I)
MATH 209 (Fundamentals of Mathematics II)
ECON 201 (Introduction to Microeconomics)
ECON 203 (Introduction to Macroeconomics)
BTM 200 (Fundamentals of Information Technology)
A  may also be required.
Applicants from other universities who wish to transfer an unfinished degree or complete a second degree at the John Molson School of Business must have achieved a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.30 scale) with an average GPA of 3.0 (B equivalent) in mathematics courses. Ideally, applicants should have completed all prerequisite courses (Calculus I, Linear Algebra, Microeconomics, Macroeconomics and Computer Literacy).
Applicants who meet the minimum entry requirements but lack some or all of the prerequisite courses are encouraged to apply and may still be considered for admission, providing they have completed business or business-related courses.
A  may also be required.
Newly admitted applicants will likely receive credit for university-level courses completed at a recognized institution, subject to . Transfer credits will only be assessed once the applicant’s file is complete and an admissions decision has been made. Details and an explanation of all transfer credits will be included in JMSB acceptance letters.
Note: per university policy, completed university courses must have an equivalent grade of "C-" or higher to be transfered for credit to a JMSB program.
*Additional conditions may apply for university transfers. Applicants in Failed Standing are subject to additional requirements.
Concordia students in non-JMSB degree programs (e.g., B.A. students) may apply to transfer to a JMSB degree program for the Fall term only - the deadline is March 1. Apply online by logging into the Application for Admission section of the .
Independent Students and Certificate program students are not eligible for degree transfers and must submit a new application to the university for either the Fall or Winter terms.
The following admissions information is valid for all Concordia degree transfers, certificate and independent students
Applicants for transfer to either the BComm or BAdmin program must meet the following requirements:
Complete a minimum of 12 credits at Concordia University and achieve a minimum Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 2.70. (The CGPA is an overall GPA based on the grades for all the courses completed at Concordia).
Complete the following five courses (or their equivalents) prior to admission:
BTM 200 – Fundamentals of Information Technology. (Students who completed either INTE 290 or DESC 200 are not required to complete this course.)
ECON 201 – Introduction to Microeconomics
ECON 203 – Introduction to Macroeconomics
MATH 208 – Fundamentals of Mathematics I (Linear Algebra)
MATH 209 – Fundamentals of Mathematics II (Calculus I)
Achieve an average grade of 2.70 (B-) or better in MATH 208 and MATH 209. Students who have received an exemption for MATH 208 must achieve a minimum grade of 2.70 in MATH 209, and vice versa.
*Applicants in Failed Standing are subject to additional requirements and cannot be accepted as transfer students until the conditions of their readmission are satisfied.
Courses available to non-JMSB students in preparation for internal degree transfer
Students who are currently registered in a non-business degree program may wish to complete the following courses for which they may obtain an exemption from or transfer credits for specific COMM courses:
MARK 201 (Introduction to Marketing) → Transfer credit for COMM 223 (min. grade of C-)
COMM 215* (Business Statistics) → Transfer credit for COMM 215 (min. grade of C-)
ACCO 230* (Financial Accounting) → Exemption (no credit) from COMM 217 only if completed before Fall 2015
ACCO 240* (Managerial Accounting) → Exemption (no credit) from COMM 305
* These courses are difficult and should only be attempted by students with good academic standing.
The following courses will not result in transfer credits or exemptions toward a JMSB degree
Current: ACCO 230, ADMI 201, ADMI 202, FINA 230, MANA 201, MANA 202, MANA 298, and MANA 300
Discontinued: COMM 299 (Introduction to Financial Management), MANA 211, MANA 213, MANA 266
*Completed university courses will have the credits transferred to a new program provided a grade of C‑ or better has been achieved.
How to apply
For an overview of how to apply, view Concordia's .
Ready to start your application? .
Information valid as at September 2017 – Subject to change without notice
Get started
Schedule an admissions appointment
Please choose the correct appointment type for your situation:
For current Concordia students completing internal transfers to JMSB
For current or future Independent Students planning to apply to JMSB
For all applicant situations not covered above (non-Independent Students)
Bring a printed copy of your unofficial trancript when using any JMSB Admissions Advising services.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University