Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/research/centres.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Research centres
Research centres & laboratories
Find out more about the fascinating work being done at JMSB's research centres.
The mission of the  (CMBBR) is to advance the knowledge of behavioural issues in businesses and organizations.
The  (CSBES) was established in 1984 to develop courses and training programs, to sponsor and promote research on the needs of entrepreurs and small businesses, and to support Montreal-area entrepreneurs, small businesses, NGOs and entrepreneurial and small business associations.
The  provides an effective and mutually beneficial applied teaching and research platform where JMSB and CN will collaborate on designing, executing and bringing to fruition sustainable supply chain management based projects that have academic and business merit.
The  provides support and funding for primarily research, and teaching initiatives at the department of Accountancy at JMSB. The CPA Research Centre encourages research in a number of areas, including organizational performance, business ethics, management accounting, sustainability and information technology.
The  (DOCSE) focuses its efforts on guiding organizations toward holistic sustainable strategies that are rooted in innovation and enterprise development.
The  is funded by a generous endowment from the Desjardins Group. The Centre’s research will focus on innovation in business finance and on advances in the financial services sector, with specific reference to the effects on small to medium-sized business customers.
The  undertakes research, but is also a centre for training for social and economic development in Aboriginal, Black, ethnic and immigrant communities.
The  was founded as a joint initiative of Concordia’s John Molson School of Business and HEC Montréal with the goal of raising the overall quality of governance. This is done through research, training, policy papers and knowledge dissemination.
The  is a collaborative research initiative in e-negotiations, supported by Science and Engineering Research Canada, and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, Germany.
The ultimate goal of the  is to strengthen exchanges between industry and academia, better understand the role of communications in business and propel excellence in doctoral studies.
is funded by a generous endowment from the National Bank. The Initiative’s purpose is to promote research projects in the field of entrepreneurship and family business, and to support undergraduate and students with an interest in entrepreneurship and family business.
The
supports teaching and research in the area of business ownership and entrepreneurship at the John Molson School of Business.
Laboratories
The  is located at the John Molson School of Business and funded by the Canadian Foundation for Innovation (CFI).
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University