Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/shared/en/news/main/stories/2017/10/25/concordia-awards-3-new-honorary-doctorates-bernard-voyer-isabelle-hudon-kon-leong.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
News
Concordia awards 3 new honorary doctorates
The distinguished recipients include a trailblazing environmentalist, an entrepreneurial champion/ambassador and a data-management innovator
Posted on October 25, 2017
|
By: Fiona Downey
Concordia’s 2017 fall convocation ceremonies are just around the corner.
On November 20, the university will present honorary doctorates to three individuals who have made their respective marks in the fields of exploration, business and social engagement, and information technology.
Bernard Voyer, Isabelle Hudon and Kon Leong will join more than 1,700 students from the four faculties as well as the
who will be receiving their diplomas in Salle Wilfrid-Pelletier at Place des Arts.
Concordia’s 2017 fall convocation: the honorands
Bernard Voyer, O.C., O.Q., M.S.M.
For his trailblazing dedication to environmental protection and today’s youth
An explorer and mountaineer, Voyer has conquered such inhospitable environments as the Arctic and Antarctic, Everest and the Sahara Desert.
He is the first Canadian to reach the North Magnetic Pole on skis. Since 2001, Voyer has been part of the select group of explorers who have completed a world tour of the highest summits on all seven continents (otherwise known as the ), as well as both the earth’s poles — a challenge he began in 1997.
A gifted communicator, Voyer travels the world to share accounts of his adventures and the awareness they have given him about the fragility of the planet’s ecosystems. He is particularly devoted to encouraging young people to reach the heights of their greatest ambitions.
Voyer was the recipient of the Royal Canadian Geographical Society’s Gold Medal in 2000. Two years later, Adrienne Clarkson, then governor general, recognized him as one of the 50 greatest Canadians of the previous 50 years.
Bernard Voyer addresses the
on Monday, November 20 at 10 a.m.
Isabelle Hudon
For her pioneering drive on behalf of successive generations of women
Until her appointment in September as the first woman ambassador to represent Canada in Paris, Hudon was executive chair for Sun Life Financial Quebec and senior vice-president of client solutions for Sun Life Financial Canada.
Hudon’s exemplary leadership in encouraging more women to enter the realm of business is matched by her civic engagement to ensure women find their rightful place in all realms of today’s society.
President and CEO of the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal from 2004 to 2008, Hudon has figured repeatedly on media lists of the 100 most influential women in Canada.
She is also the founder of , an organization whose goal is to incite women “to not wait to be called but instead put up your hand and take a seat at the table,” even when that table is in a corporate boardroom.
Isabelle Hudon addresses the
on Monday, November 20 at 3 p.m.
Kon Leong
For his expertise in data analytics and his devotion to entrepreneurship and innovation
As a serial entrepreneur and investment banker, Leong (BComm 79) understands well the data needs of the corporate market. He started several high-tech companies in Silicon Valley, and has held senior positions in information technology, engineering and management departments in several Fortune 100 companies.
In finance, Leong occupied posts ranging from manager of venture capital investments in high tech at General Motors to mergers and acquisitions on Wall Street as first vice-president of M&A Deutsche Bank.
Leong then became co-founder and president of GigaLabs, a vendor of high-speed networking switches. In 1999, he co-founded ZL Technologies, a software company that empowers large enterprises to manage big data for governance and analytics. He remains the San Francisco Bay Area–based company’s president and CEO today.
Kon Leong addresses the
and the
in a joint ceremony on Monday, November 20 at 7:30 p.m.
Find out more about .
Related Links
Related stories
Related topics
Latest stories
Find an expert
Search for an expert to comment on any topicEnter a phrase or keyword
Most popular
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University