Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/instructional-technology.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Centre for Instructional Technology
Centre for Instructional Technology
The John Molson School of Business has a tradition of leadership in adopting new technologies. CIT is the unit responsible for providing all levels of support for the school's IT services. These can be categorized as technical support, educational technology, systems services, and Research dataset support.
See below for some of the services provided by CIT.
The Educational Technology unit of CIT provides technical and pedagogical resources, training and support to faculty and staff at JMSB.
Some of the services that we provide are:
- Course development assistance
- Recommendation and production of learning materials
- Production and distribution of instructional documents
- Assurance of Learning (AOL) guidance for AACSB accreditation
- Production of videos, audio recordings and video screen captures
- Formative Evaluation
- Support for Peer Evaluation System
- Support for Learning Management Systems (i.e. Moodle)
For more information, please contact:
Malcolm MacPhail at malcolm.macphail@concordia.ca or extension 2735
Rhea Westover at rhea.westover@concordia.ca
or extension 4286.
The desktop support provided covers the hardware, software, and the peripherals located in your MB office. The best way to place a support call is by either calling extension 7613, submitting a ticket using this , or emailing .
Below is a sample of services provided:
Consultation on purchases of computers, laptops and peripherals
Setup of office computers and installation of supported software
Proper licensing of software
Support using equipment in MB conference rooms
Network issues and security concerns
Printer troubleshooting
A full list of IT services available within the university through .
The MB classrooms are supported by IITS. For all technical assistance, please contact the MB - IITS depot located on Subbasement level 2. CIT has worked with IITS to produce the attached PDF on how to operate the classroom technology.
Survey and database services are offered to faculty and staff only. Contact CIT before commissioning work to be developed by a student so that we can properly support the end product.
Services provided:
Assist in use of supported survey software
Builds databases for online registration
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University