Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/biochemistry.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Biochemistry (BSc)
Biochemistry (BSc)
Bachelor of Science (BSc)
Offered by:
,
Why study Biochemistry?
Biochemistry may not give you the answers to the meaning of life, but it can tell you how life works. As a biochemist, you will study the chemical processes that occur within the cells of living organisms. You could use your knowledge of cellular processes and molecular inheritance to combat disease, engineer pest-resistant crops, or develop microorganisms to clean up oil spills.
Our state-of-the-art labs and equipment include the Biomolecular Function, Interactions and Structure facility (BIOFINS) which houses a collection of instruments that is unique in Eastern Canada. Small class sizes foster strong student–professor relationships, and our teaching labs introduce you to the techniques used in the field. You will also:
Study the role of proteins, carbohydrates and lipids in cellular processes
Examine biochemical responses to toxic compounds in the environment
Receive extensive training in research methodology
Perform original research as an undergraduate (honours and specialization students only)
Concordia’s honours and specialization in Biochemistry programs are accredited by the Ordre des chimistes du Québec.
Program details
A Bachelor of Science degree takes a minimum of three or four years (90–120 credits) of full-time study, .
Concentrations:
(72 credits)
(69 credits)
(45 credits)
.
Additional Math / Science Courses
CEGEP STUDENTS: Calculus 1 and Calculus 2 and Linear Algebra – Mechanics, Electricity and Magnetism and Wave, Optics and Modern Physics – General Chemistry and Chemistry of Solutions – General Biology OR Natural Science DEC OR DEC intégré en sciences, lettres et arts.
CANADIAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS: one math – two of biology, chemistry, physics
BACC. FRANÇAIS STUDENTS: Science programs require the completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français
Note: Special attention is paid to Math and Science grades. Applicants missing some of the course prerequisites may still be eligible for admission.
Minimum Cut-off Averages
Minimum cut-off averages should be used as indicators. The cut-off data may change depending on the applicant pool. Applicants who meet the stated minimum requirements are not guaranteed admission to these programs.
Quebec Cegep (CRC):
Honours: 28.000  |  Specialization: 25.000  |  Major: 20.000  |  Co-op (CRC): 28
Canadian High Schools:
Honours: 85%  |  Specialization: 80%  |  Major: 70%
U.S. High Schools:
Honours: 3.3  |  Specialization: 3.0  |  Major: 2.6
University Transfers:
Honours: B+  |  Specialization: B  |  Major: C+
International Bacc. (IB):
Honours: 33  |  Specialization: 30  |  Major: 27
Bacc. Français:
Honours: 14/20  |  Specialization: 13/20  |  Major: 11/20
Science programs require completion of Série S (Sciences) Bacc. Français.
Make sure you also meet .
We consider complete applications year round and we give priority to applicants who apply by official deadlines. Late applications will be considered if places
for the fall term only.
Fall term deadline:
All applicants, including
international students
March 1
Winter term deadline:
Canadian citizen or
permanent resident
November 1
International students
September 1
Not all programs are available for this term. Please check .
We reserve the right to close admission to a program at any time after the official deadline without prior notice.
Each of our programs comprises a core component taken by all students. Specialization and honours students take additional courses at the intermediate and advanced levels.
Full details of individual programs and course descriptions can be found in the .
Each student will receive a package of information regarding the Registration process, which includes the registration dates. Students must see a Department Advisor who will help in choosing the courses and planning their programme. Unless you are a returning student it is mandatory to have an advisor approve your courses before Registration. You must make an appointment with an advisor:
Telephone: (514) 848-2424, Ext. 3355
Make sure you bring a copy of your academic record and your letter of admission when you meet the advisor.
The normal course load for a full-time student is 30 credits for the academic year (Note: enrolling in less than 24 credits in an academic year will make a student ineligible for many scholarships, bursaries and loans).
To request permission for a course overload, course substitution or to take a course without the required prerequisite, a student must obtain a Departmental Student Request form from SP-201.01. When the form has been filled in and the appropriate documents attached, it should be given to the Receptionist in room SP-201.01.
Please read the
for deadlines () and regulations () regarding course changes, withdrawals, etc. Make sure that you understand the Degree Requirements () and Academic Performance Regulations () for the Faculty of Arts and Science.
A number of scholarships and prizes are available to students in the Department. Some of these are awarded before starting the program of study at Concordia, such as, Entrance Scholarships, while others are awarded during the course of studies, such as, In-Course Scholarships.
There are also Federal and Provincial Loans and Bursaries for eligible candidates. Further information is available in  of the Undergraduate Calendar.
The Co-op program gives you the chance to complete paid work terms that last 12 to 16 weeks. As a Co-op student, you will work for firms where you may:
Analyze anti-viral compounds
Clone and express genes
Perform cell culture, receptor and enzyme assays
Detect biomolecular interactions
Concordia University's Science College provides a unique forum where students interested in the sciences can prepare for a life of research, teaching or any challenging pursuit or profession in the sciences.
Founded in 1979, the Science College espouses the following well-defined, distinct, and important concepts of science education: student participation in laboratory research activities from the first year on and a curriculum emphasizing cross-disciplinary thinking as well as intensive student-faculty and student-student interaction.
.
Reactive Intermediates Student Exchange (RISE)
RISE is a summer student exchange program providing undergraduate students with opportunities to carry out original research and gain hands-on experience in the use of modern instrumental and other experimental techniques. The RISE Group is a collection of scientists at almost twenty institutions in Canada, whose research emphasizes the study of chemical or biochemical reaction mechanisms. .
Inorganic Chemistry Exchange (ICE)
ICE offers summer employment opportunities to 12 qualified candidates from across Canada. The awards are for a summer research assistantship at an institution other than your own, in the laboratory of an ICE faculty member. .
Some Biochemistry alumni pursue graduate studies. Others establish careers in the pharmaceutical and health science sectors, environmental or government laboratories, or in genetic engineering, biotechnology and nanotechnology.
Related programs
Key Resources
United States
students
A US Federal Student Aid-eligible version of this program is offered. This version meets all US regulations (such as no co-operative education or e-courses) for eligible programs.
Join the Conversation
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University