Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/public-policy-administration.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Public Policy and Public Administration (MA)
Public Policy and Public Administration (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Public Policy and Public Administration?
Develop and apply advanced social science research to issues of democratic governance. Gain insight into analyzing complex political situations in order to provide expert strategic advice.
The MA in Public Policy and Public Administration provides an experiential learning environment where you will gain unparalleled access to academic and professional training to help you succeed in public sector organizations, including the public service and non-governmental organizations. Coursework and events organized through the
offer occasions to make valuable connections with political leaders, senior-level bureaucrats, judges, political pundits and academics, while developing skills in policy analysis and research methods.
Work alongside distinguished
who regularly secure SSHRC grants, as well as other significant sources of external funding. Our researchers are currently engaged in various projects that receive financial support, including research focussing on gender mainstreaming, street-level bureaucracy and immigration policy. The Department of Political Science is also home to the .
Students enrolled in the
benefit from a four-month job placement in the public or private sector during the final semester of their studies. The majority of our students secure paid internships with government agencies in Ottawa and Montreal, but many others have found opportunities in Geneva, Washington, Prague and elsewhere around the world. Around 95 per cent of our internship students are bridged into full- or part-time positions immediately following their placement.
Program details
Options
Option A. Courses Only
Option B. Internship
Upon application, students enter Option A (MPPPA with Courses only). Once admitted to the program, students have the opportunity to transfer to Option B (MPPPA with Internship). To enter the Internship option students must complete the prescribed coursework and normally achieve a minimum GPA of 3.30.
for full degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. An undergraduate honours degree or the equivalent is required. Students who do not have the necessary background in public policy and public administration may be required to take specific undergraduate courses in addition to the regular program. In certain cases, applicants may be required to complete a qualifying program in order to be eligible for admission to the graduate program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and
Statement of purpose (500 words maximum) should describe applicant's academic interest and relevant experience, primary area of concentration, preferred program option, and expectations and goals. Students should also explain why they are a good candidate for the program
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Public Policy and Public Administration
MA
Jan. 15
Oct. 1
n/a
Courses typically offered include:
Theories of Public Policy and Public Administration
Research Methods
Comparative Public Policy
Political Leadership & Decision Making
Policy Analysis and Program Evaluation
Canadian Public Administration
Master’s students are eligible for a variety of scholarships and fellowships, Research assistant and Teaching assistant positions, conference travel awards and other in-course funding.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.  Upon admission, students will also be considered for the Department of Political Science’s Dr. Everett Price Graduate Scholarship which is awarded to an incoming student on the basis of academic merit.
The Department of Political Science is also pleased to offer the Leo Tavormina Memorial Entrance Bursary ($500), which is awarded to an incoming student on the basis of financial need.
We encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their undergraduate studies (e.g. , ).
Please consult Concordia’s
page and
for additional information.
During a four-month internship, you will gain hands-on experience under professional supervision. Many internships evolve into temporary or permanent employment positions, and students are often paid during their placement.
Examples of past internship sites include:
Indigenous Affairs and Northern Development Canada
Alcan Inc.
Canadian Heritage
City of Montreal
Global Affairs Canada
National Defence
Employment & Social Development Canada
Environment & Climate Change Canada
Global Health Program – McGill University
Government of Colombia
Government of Mexico – Legislature
International Bridges to Justice (IBJ) – Geneva
International Bureau of Children's Rights
Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies
Office of the Auditor General
Privy Council Office
Public Health Agency of Canada
Transport Canada
United Nations
US Consular General in Montreal
.
Our  are active researchers who contribute to the field in the areas of constitutional law, comparative politics, policy making, political theory, international relations, public administration, Canadian politics, Quebec politics, nationalism, federalism, and public opinion. They encourage deliberative democracy in classrooms, academic functions, and departmental decisions.
Faculty research interests include:
Canadian and comparative public policy
feminist and critical policy studies
international relations and non-governmental organizations
politics of population aging
public administration and Canadian politics
strategic studies
The  provides a platform to stimulate opportunities for all members in a variety of cultural, intellectual, political, recreational and social activities.
Recent initiatives of the PSGSA include a graduate student conference in which students from Quebec, Ontario and Atlantic Canada present their work and foster dialogue across multiple fields and disciplines. Past conference themes have included “Political and Economic Crises and their Implications,” “Challenges, Disconnects, and Clashes in Political Studies” and “Trends and Dynamics in Global Politics.”
The
is an annual publication produced by a team of graduate students in the Department of Political Science. The journal promotes the work of students from all levels of graduate studies and from a variety of research areas.
Our alumni are highly sought after by federal agencies and departments, universities, industry associations, patent offices, provincial programs, colleges, advocacy groups, and intergovernmental organizations. Graduates are working as analysts, advisors, directors, special programs officers, assistants, program evaluators, chief accountants, internal auditors and managers.
Examples of organizations and institutions our alumni are currently working for include:
Agricultural Manufacturers of Canada
Canadian Coast Guard
Canadian Intellectual Property Office
Canadian Space Agency
eHealth Ontario
Global Affairs Canada
Health Canada
House of Commons of Canada
Mohawk College
Ontario Ministry of Community and Social Services
Parks Canada
Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat
.
Key resources
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2126
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd W., Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University