Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/finearts/student-life/alumni.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Alumni
Alumni
The 17,600 alumni from Concordia's Faculty of Fine Arts are visual and performing artists, academics, educators and researchers whose collective achievements have helped advance and enrich our international reputation for excellence in fine arts.
Keep in touch
Update your latest contact details, including professional information, so you never miss another story or alumni event!
Join your alumni community online!
Visit us
Walk down memory lane or discover one of Concordia's new spaces.
We'd be happy to show you around the faculty's facilities on the Loyola or Sir George Williams campuses.
Contact:
Find Concordia near you
Concordia has alumni chapters in Montreal and around the world to serve its more than 200,000 alumni. To connect with other grads from your department, contact:
.
Learn about the .
Landon Mackenzie, MFA 79, takes Concordia alumni on a tour of her exhibition "Emily Carr and Landon Mackenzie: Wood Chopper and the Monkey," at the Vancouver Art Gallery.
Take pride
Learn about our notable leaders, prominent researchers, entrepreneurs, artists, athletes and thinkers at .
Discover what we achieved first in Montreal, Quebec, Canada and the world at .
Read more .
Laurence Pilon, BFA 16, believes design can be understood as an initiator of change that has the potential to influence and even remodel our world.
Go beyond
Concordia’s ability to deliver innovative, impactful and beyond-expectations experiences requires the generosity of our alumni, friends and partners.
For more information on giving options or for specific questions about making a gift, please contact .
#CUalumni #CUgiving
Creative Thinking at its finest
Our faculty is among Canada’s foremost for the study and creation of visual and performing arts.
Join us online
Contact us
Peggy Killeen
Principal Director of Development
Faculty of Fine Arts
Kelly Mackay
Senior Development Officer
Faculty of Fine Arts;
Kristina Ramsay
Alumni Officer, Faculty Liaison
Advancement and alumni Relations
Adrienne Johnson
Assistant Prospect Researcher
Faculty of fine Arts
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Civic address:
1515 Ste. Catherine St. West
EV 2.705
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Mailing address:
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. West
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University