Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/mathematics-statistics-phd.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Mathematics (PhD)
Mathematics (PhD)
Doctorate (PhD)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Doctorate in Mathematics?
From big data to corporate finance, intelligence analysis to operational research, mathematics researchers  tackle complex problems in an array of fast-evolving fields.  Investigate research questions and become a well-trained scholar in some of the discipline’s most vibrant . By pursuing a PhD in Mathematics at Concordia, you will play a critical role in shaping and advancing the field of mathematics among leading .
Benefit from Concordia’s association with the
(Institut des sciences mathématiques) and the
(Centre de recherches mathématiques), by choosing to take courses at any of the four universities in Montreal, register to workshops and participate in collaborative projects throughout your studies.
With a PhD in mathematics, you will be ready to pursue a career in academia or apply your cutting-edge research expertise to fast-evolving fields, including finance, big data, risk management and computer science.
Program Details
Requirements for the Degree
Credits. Students must complete a program of 90 credits, consisting of the following components:
Comprehensive examinations (12 credits);
Six courses or seminars (18 credits);
Thesis (60 credits).
Comprehensive Examination. The comprehensive examination is composed of the following two parts:
Part A (6 credits)
This is a written examination, consisting of two parts. The first part of the Comprehensive A examination is to test the candidate’s general knowledge of fundamental mathematical concepts. It will normally be completed within one year (3 terms) of the candidate’s entry into the program or the equivalent of part-time study. The second part of the Comprehensive A examination tests the candidate’s knowledge of topics in his or her area of specialization. The material will be chosen from the list of course descriptions given by the Graduate Studies Committee in consultation with the candidate’s research supervisor and the student’s Advisory Committee. Candidates are allowed at most one failure in the Part A examination.
Part B (6 credits)
The Comprehensive B examination is an oral presentation of the candidate’s plan of his or her doctoral thesis in front of the student’s Advisory Committee. It is normally taken within two-three years of the candidate’s entry into the program (or the equivalent of part-time study) and at least one year before the expected completion of the thesis.
Thesis. Concurrently with the preparation for the Part B exam, the students will be engaging in their research work towards the dissertation. After submitting the doctoral thesis, the candidate is required to pass an oral defence of the thesis. The doctoral thesis must make an original contribution to mathematical knowledge, at a level suitable for publication in a reputable professional journal in the relevant area.
Average Time to Completion. Normally a student completes all requirements for the degree, except for the thesis, within two years of entering the program. The normal period for completion of the program, for a student already holding the equivalent of an MA/MSc degree, is three to four years.
Admission Requirements. Candidates will be selected on the basis of their past academic record, letters of recommendation and the relevance of the proposed area of research to the areas of specialization of the Department. The normal requirement for admission to the program is a MSc degree, with high standing in Mathematics or an allied discipline from a recognized university. Exceptional candidates who have successfully completed one-year’s study at the Master’s level may, upon approval by the Graduate Studies Committee, be exempted from the required completion of the Master’s degree and admitted directly into the PhD program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
and
Statement of purpose (maximum two pages) should:
describe your research interests and past research experience, if any
identify specific professors or research groups in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics with whom or which you want to work
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Mathematics
PhD
Feb. 1
n/a
n/a
Courses typically offered include:
Functional Analysis II
Dynamical Systems & Fractals
Probability Theory
Stochastic Differential Equations
for a complete list of courses and the .
The department offers financial support to approximately 25-30 full-time M.A/M.Sc. and Ph.D. students per year. It also awards internal scholarships through organized competitions and allocates research and teaching assistantships. Some scholarships and bursaries are also available through .
Faculty of Arts and Science Fellowships
The Faculty of Arts and Science supports graduate students by awarding one-year Masters fellowships ($7,000). Other awards available through the faculty include:
Concordia Merit Scholarship
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship
Harriet and Abe Gold Endowment
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award
Concordia International Tuition Award of Excellence
John W. O'Brien Graduate Fellowship
Clara Strozyk Scholarship
Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students. We also encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources (e.g. NSERC, FRQNT). An important part of these applications is writing a research project proposal which candidates may discuss with their potential supervisors.
Please also consult Concordia’s  page and .
Our faculty members specialize in several research areas:
Actuarial Mathematics
Algebra
Analysis
Applied Mathematics
Dynamical Systems
Financial Mathematics
Geometry
Mathematics Education
Mathematical Physics
Number Theory
Probability
Statistics
Learn more about each
and get to know our .
The Department is part of the
(), a unique centre of excellence for graduate training in Mathematics, combining the resources and expertise of the mathematics departments at the four Montreal-area universities, as well as Université de Sherbrooke and Université Laval.
The Department is also associated with the
(CRM), a NSERC National Research Centre whose mission is to provide leadership in the development of mathematical sciences in Canada.
To foster interdisciplinary research and cross-specialty collaborations, we maintain close ties with the , as well as other departments and universities. A wide range of research seminars and lectures are held regularly throughout the year, many of them being organized in conjunction with other Montreal universities, the ISM and the CRM.
See what our students are working on. Review an inspiring list of .
Graduates with a doctorate in mathematics find success in diverse careers, such as:
Financial analysis
Risk management
Investment banking
Software engineering
Market research
Management consultancy
Operational research
Data analysis
Computer programming
Scientific research and development
Academia
Related Programs
Contact us
Debbie Arless
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 3250
Location:
1400 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2V8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University