Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/judaic-studies.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Judaic Studies (MA)
Judaic Studies (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Judaic Studies?
Students who value their undergraduate work in a wide array of disciplines – Judaic Studies, religious studies, history, literature, political science and philosophy – find their way to Concordia’s MA in Judaic Studies.  Our
is diverse, trained in many fields that include anthropology, gender studies, rabbinics and literary studies.  They are experts in a range of cultural traditions, and interested in the most up-to-date contexts of academic research and discussion.
The MA in Judaic Studies program is a revamped and rethought program, with an eye to students’ needs.  It is strengthened by in-house academic awards, internships, and new language-focused support for students.  Some of these funding opportunities are supported by relationships with independent centres at Concordia, including
and The .
The cultural moment in Montreal, and Quebec more broadly, is in intense discussion with its religious past, and with the meaning of diversity in a province with a particular identity and political history.  The local Jewish community offers multiple opportunities for study and career development. The Department of Religions and Cultures is an exemplary place to study such developments, as well as to attain skills that will aid students in seeking meaningful involvement in the wider society and workplace.
Program Details
We offer two options:
Option A: MA with thesis
Option B: MA with guided research paper
All students initially enroll in Option B but may later apply to transfer to Option A.
Admission Requirements. An undergraduate degree in Judaic Studies or its equivalent, including courses corresponding to RELI 301 (The Hebrew Bible), RELI 326 (Ancient Judaism), RELI 327 (Medieval Jewish Thought and Institutions), RELI 328 (Modern Jewish Thought and Institutions). Qualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Applicants with deficiencies in their undergraduate preparation may be required to take a qualifying program. Qualifying program students in the Department of Religions and Cultures must complete their program with a minimum GPA of 3.50 with no courses graded lower than a “B+” to be considered for admission to the graduate program.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and  Letters of reference should be of an academic nature (and not from employment unrelated to University studies)
Statement of purpose (1-2 pages) should describe your particular academic interests, the pertinence of your educational background to those interests, and how this degree program would support them. The statement should clearly outline what it is you wish to study, why you would like to study it, and what your interests are in pursuing this graduate degree. Please also include your competence in languages relevant to your study
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please review the department before applying . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Judaic Studies
MA
Feb. 1*
Oct. 1
n/a
*Fall: Late applications will be considered until May 1, without funding.
for a complete list of current courses.
Funding opportunities include a variety of entrance scholarships and fellowships, which are available on a competitive basis. Consideration for entrance awards is given to applicants applying for fall admission, and is automatically part of the admission process.
Teaching assistantships are available and awarded to students on a competitive basis. Faculty members offer research assistant positions based on their own research grants.
Many of our students are also funded through provincial () and Federal () grants. Other funding opportunities are available through
and .
For additional information, please consult Concordia’s
page and .
The Department of Religions and Cultures currently offers MA level internships at The Canadian Jewish Archives, The Multi-faith and Spirituality Center and The Azrieli Institute of Israel Studies. In each of these internships the candidate has the opportunity to work in a community or professional environment advancing their career and academic skills while earning three credits.
The intern is an MA level candidate in excellent standing. They will be supervised by the local administrator or site supervisor and will be graded by a faculty member of this department. Students will be chosen on academic criteria of excellence and proven ability to work independently.
are internationally renowned for their work in a variety of historical and geographical areas (including Europe, North America, the Middle East, South and East Asia) and spanning multiple traditions (including Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam and Judaism). Faculty are well-represented in numerous .
The Department has unique strengths in the areas of:
Canadian Jewish Studies
Religions and Cultures in Roman Late Antiquity
Iranian Studies
Women, Gender and Sexuality (WGS)
Amongst other department activities, our faculty hosts a monthly Women, Gender and Sexuality Seminar that attracts students and faculty from around the university and from other local universities. This Seminar brings world-class faculty to present their research in the department. Recent visitors include:
Isabelle Clark-Decés (Princeton)
Robert Orsi (Northwestern University)
Caroline Walker Bynum (Emerita Columbia)
Joan Wallach Scott (Institute for Advanced Studies)
Review an inspiring list of
and read about some of our .
The Department of Religions and Cultures boasts a vibrant graduate student community with in-house opportunities for career development, networking, and research creation. Graduate students in the department foster an impressive array of projects, including an active student organization, the
(GRSA), , and the
(AGIC), now in its 22nd year. Students are also encouraged to participate in other department activities, such as guest lectures and faculty colloquia.
Graduates of our program go on to careers in academia, government and non-profit agencies, as well as positions in religious or community organizations.
Related Programs
Key resources
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2077
Location:
2060 Mackay, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 2J1
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University