Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/sgs/programs/agreements/cotutelle.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
COTUTELLEGive your PhD a global perspective
Did you know you can pursue doctoral research at more than one university? A cotutelle opens doors to international researchers and gives you a joint PhD.
A cotutelle refers to an agreement on joint supervision between two universities at the doctoral level. It allows the students to get a double / joint PhD degree delivered and recognized by both institutions.
Full-time doctoral students can take advantage of an exceptional opportunity to earn a joint PhD degree while developing strong connections with international partners. Through the cotutelle program, PhD candidates work in collaboration with distinguished faculty members from Concordia and an international partner university to produce an original thesis.
The program requires that students satisfy each institution's minimum requirements and submit their dissertation to both universities prior to graduation. Successful candidates receive a PhD degree from Concordia and the partner institution.
Benefits of a cotutelle
For the student
Opportunities for international research
Collaborations with other researchers
A recognized joint degree from Concordia and the partner university
For the university
Expansion of international relationships for Concordia
Raises Concordia’s visibility abroad as a centre of cutting-edge research
Provides supervisors and faculty members with opportunities to develop international collaborations
Candidate FAQs
You are eligible to register at any international accredited university that is open to a cotutelle agreement. Concordia supervisors must approve the partner university and agree to work in collaboration with the chosen co-supervisor.
Discuss the cotutelle plan with your current Concordia supervisor
Contact , graduate admission advisor at the School of Graduate Studies, to discuss a potential cotutelle before communicating with the partner university
If approved, reach out to your potential co-supervisor at the partner university
Follow the requirements needed to enrol at the partner university
Complete a Cotutelle Agreement form with your supervisor, in collaboration with Kelly Walsh
All other required signatures will be collected by the School of Graduate Studies
Once both universities approve the cotutelle program, you will be admitted
Yes, you must follow the partner university’s application/admission procedures.
You will pay tuition for the terms you are registered at Concordia University (a minimum of 3 non-consecutive terms are required). You need to contact the partner university for questions about their tuition fees.
No. However, the cotutelle arrangement should be established as early as possible.
Yes, in most cases. It is best to contact the  to ensure that your particular award is eligible.
Internal funding administered through the School of Graduate Studies will be honored when abroad. Students must seek approval for any internal awards administered through their department or Faculty while away on a cotutelle.
Ready to begin?
Cotutelle with French partner university
If you are pursuing a cotutelle with France, complete this form:
Cotutelle with international partner university
If you are pursuing a cotutelle outside of France, complete this form:
If Concordia University is your potential partner university
1. Visit  to learn more about research networks at our Montreal campuses
2. Contact  at the School of Graduate Studies to discuss Concordia's requirements for a cotutelle program prior to the
date
3.  to Concordia University as a doctoral student
Questions?
Graduate Admission Advisor
School of Graduate Studies
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University