Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/services/molson-building.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Our building
Our building
The John Molson School of Business building (MB) is the dynamic green centre of Concordia University’s John Molson School of Business (JMSB). This architecturally stunning 37,000-square-metre 15-storey landmark boasts a distinctive design that incorporates bright atriums, modern classrooms, several networking spaces, a 300-seat auditorium, six amphitheatres and two basement levels that link it to neighbouring buildings and to the metro system. The building was awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver level certification by the Canada Green Building Council.
Take a tour of our building
Highlights, features & fast facts
Standing on only 3,000 squares meters of land the John Molson School of Business building totals 37,000 gross square meters.
The building overlooks downtown Montreal with 17 floors including the two basement levels and a mechanical penthouse.
"For the first time, the John Molson School of Business has a home," stated Dean Sharma. All 8,000 Undergraduate and Graduate students enrolled at JMSB can be found studying under the same roof.
As of August 2009 students, faculty and staff can access the internet wirelessly from any location within the building.
Students and Professors can take advantage of 45 state-of-the-art classrooms (individually equipped with complete AV systems: Crestron control panels, flip-top cable storage compartments, computers, DVD and VHS players, LCD projectors, projection screens, speakers, and motion sensor controlled lighting).
Classrooms are located on the first eight floors (starting at sub-basement two through floor 6)
There is one 300-seat auditorium, two 150-seat amphitheaters, four 120-seat amphitheaters, 22 conference rooms, and 289 offices. 44 private study rooms, 3 designated open study areas, 8 open relaxation/study areas, 7 waiting areas.
Consortium Kuwabara Payne McKenna Blumberg and Fichten Soiferman and Associates (KPMB|FSA en consortium).
Floor highlights
Sub-Basement 2 connects to the EV building and the metro system. There is also access to concession and food areas
Ground Floor is home to the 300 seat auditorium and an open concept atrium
2nd Floor boasts the "floating" event room in addition to closed study areas and a relaxation/waiting area
3rd Floor has an open relaxation area in addition to smaller classrooms
4th Floor offers an atrium with a staircase and the terrace with a green roof garden (not yet planted)
5th Floor homes a unique debate style classroom
6th Floor offers two executive style classrooms
12th Floor is home to the unique
15th Floor has a faculty lounge with terrace, an oval conference room and a board room complete with catering facilities
Take a quick
Emphasis on sustainable development & social issues
The building was awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver level certification by the Canada Green Building Council.
The building's southwest sidewall is considered the first ever "" in the world: the solar panels stretch the length of the south-west side of the mechanical penthouse, covering an approximate surface area of 300 square meters. The photovoltaic panels will generate up to 25 kW of electricity and 75 kW of heat. That's enough energy to turn on 1,250 CFL light bulbs, and provide heat for 7 Canadian homes throughout the year.
of the John Molson School of Business Building.
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University