Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/jmsb/programs/graduate/emba.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
/
EMBA
John Molson Executive MBA
We develop . Our program offers a family-friendly schedule over 20 months, and practical, one-day-per week learning that you can apply in the workplace immediately.
Dominique Vincent, VP and portfolio manager at 3Macs, Champion of the 2017-2019 cohort
John Molson EMBA
Congratulations EMBA Class of 2017
ROI for employers
The individual being sponsored is typically a valued employee with an already strong skill-set; someone the organization wants to develop and retain. Learn how the John Molson Executive MBA can help the employer and employee achieve this goal.
Upcoming
Nov. 28
6 p.m. — 8 p.m.
2018
Apr. 19
6 p.m. — 8 p.m.
Get started
Student testimonials
A new level of confidence:
Program Highlights:
Challenging, but rewarding:
Joining the JMSB EMBA program is one of the best decisions of my life. The exposure to new learning, through excellent professors and the cohort alike, has been enriching and life changing. I have been able to put these learnings to use in my work environment since week 1 of the program.
Andrea Limbardi
EMBA 2016
Enrolling in the EMBA program equipped me with mindset and analytical tools that have allowed me to truly succeed in a business environment. The ability to overcome the challenges of managing a career, family, and the EMBA workload, afforded me with the confidence to realize that anything is possible, and no challenge is too daunting. This degree has created opportunities for me in my career.
Andrea Polatos
EMBA 2009
I enrolled in the John Molson Executive MBA to broaden my management skills without having to leave my job. I believe that the tools as well as the professional and personal resources that I developed during the Program provide me with a competitive advantage in a highly competitive business world.
Julien BriseBois EMBA 2007, LLB Université de Montréal
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
John Molson School of Business
1450 Guy St.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 0A1
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University