Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/geography-urban-environmental-phd.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies (PhD)
Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies (PhD)
Doctorate (PhD)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Doctorate in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies?
Gain a deeper understanding of how humans interact and intervene with the world around them. Learn about the socio-cultural and environmental dimensions of human settlements as they evolve. Develop insights into environmental changes spanning from local to global that will shed light on the past and the present, help predict the future, and guide strategies for more sustainable human livelihoods and settlements.
The PhD in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies provides methodological tools to understand the complex nature of reciprocating interactions between humans and the environment. Course materials integrate biological, ecological, social, GIS, cultural, economic, historical, legal and ethical perspectives to address issues that arise while developing solutions for the natural environment and strategies to build sustainable human lifestyles.
Translate your knowledge into practice in courses that emphasize learning and pedagogical training. Our students gain invaluable experience in their field of research through a 200-hour work placement in the private sector, a research laboratory based outside of Concordia, a non-profit organization or the government. Students are also required to teach four lectures of an undergraduate course after successfully completing a seminar in university teaching with the .
Work in conjunction with acclaimed
who have received the highest honours from the Royal Society of Canada’s College of New Scholars and the Canada Research Chairs Program. Our researchers have a diverse range of expertise in the natural sciences, social sciences and humanities, allowing you to take a truly interdisciplinary approach to your specific area of research interest.
Program details
Requirements for the Degree
Courses. All students must take the following:
9 credits: HENV 801, HENV 802, HENV 805.
6 credits in elective courses chosen from: HENV 605, HENV 610, HENV 620, HENV 625, HENV 630, HENV 635, HENV 640, HENV 645, HENV 650, HENV 655, HENV 660, HENV 665, HENV 670, HENV 675, HENV 680, or HENV 690.
Thesis Proposal. HENV 810 (3 credits).
Comprehensive exam. HENV 885 (6 credits).
Research and Thesis. HENV 895 (66 credits).
for complete degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. The normal requirement for admission into the PhD is a Master of Arts or a Master of Science in Geography, Urban Planning, Environmental Science, or a related field of study from a recognized university. Applicants are selected on the basis of a sound academic record, strong letters of recommendation, and a convincing statement of purpose which clearly describes their academic interest in the program and intended area of research. In addition, admission is contingent on the availability of an appropriate faculty member in the Department to serve as supervisor.
Upon recommendation by full-time members of the faculty of the Department of Geography, Planning and Environment, students registered in the Master of Science in Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies at Concordia University and who have shown themselves to be outstanding through performance in research may apply for permission to proceed directly to doctoral studies. Students transferring from the MSc program will be required to complete 90 credits in addition to the MSc required courses HENV 605 or 610 plus HENV 615.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Please apply . Read the  for application procedures.
1. Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Three  and  (two of which which must come from academic referees)
Statement of purpose (500 words maximum) should include your academic interest, primary area of concentration and research goals
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
2. An admission offer will not be issued until a supervisor match has been made. Students are encouraged to review the list of  and directly contact those with whom you would like to work.
Download our  for detailed information.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Geography, Urban and Environmental Studies
PhD
Feb. 1
n/a
n/a
Courses typically offered include:
Pedagogical Training
Experimental Learning
Advanced Qualitative Research Methods
Advanced Quantitative Research Methods
Research Proposal Seminar
for a complete list of current courses.
Doctoral students are eligible for a variety of scholarships and fellowships, Research and Teaching Assistantships, conference travel awards, and other funding opportunities.
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students. Additional awards available for Doctoral students include:
Faculty of Arts and Science Fellowships ($36,000)
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship ($32,400)
Frederick Lowy Scholars ($45,000)
Hydro-Quebec Doctoral Scholarship ($11,000)
Arts and Science Fellowship in Ethnic Studies and Social Diversity ($10,000)
Concordia International Tuition Award of Excellence ($36,000)
We encourage students seeking admission to our program to apply for funding from external sources in the final year of their Master's studies (e.g. , ).
Please consult Concordia’s
page and
for additional information.
Our
provide a distinctive and incisive perspective on the world through their research, teaching and graduate training in three core areas: geography, urban studies and urban planning, and environmental science.
Faculty research interests include:
climate change
community-based conservation
cultural geography
Geographical Information Systems
history of cities and urban planning
impact assessment
indigenous geographies
political ecology
political economy
public space and urban popular culture
regional hydrology
social and environmental justice
sustainability
transportation mobility
urban design
urban morphogenesis
urban planning in the developing world
The
is a state-of-the-art Geographic Information Systems teaching and individual study computer lab. Computers run the latest version of ArcGIS, as well as support programs for Computer Assisted Design, remote sensing and image editing.
The
is equipped with high-powered computers and servers for geographical and statistical analysis. TRIP is also home to unique and expansive transportation and land-use data for major urban regions across the country.
Other facilities available to graduate students include a cartography studio, geology and geomedia labs, an urban planning and design studio, and laboratories dedicated to landscape ecology, river management and climate modelling.
represents all graduate students in the Department of Geography, Planning & Environment at Concordia University. In addition to organizing social events, Geograds co-sponsors seminars, provides informal mentoring for undergraduate students, and works in collaboration with the Geography Undergraduate Student Society and the Urban Planning Association.
Graduate students are also deeply involved in a variety of organizations on campus, including Sustainable Concordia, the Concordia Greenhouse, Loyola Farm, the Hive Café Co-op, Frigo Vert and the People’s Potato.
Our alumni are well positioned to find success in a wide
careers in resource conservation, environmental protection, alternative and sustainable transportation, green services, sustainability planning and urban design, carbon and climate mitigation, and ecotourism.
Graduates are also qualified to pursue academic positions in departments of Geography, Environmental Sciences and Urban Planning.
Related Programs
Key resources
Contact us
Jennifer Srey
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2051
Location:
1455 de Maisonneuve Blvd. W.,  Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University