Concordia University
https://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/applied-linguistics.html
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Quick links
Study resources
Campus services
What's new
Faculties, Schools & Colleges
Concordia
Directories
Search
/
/
/
Applied Linguistics (MA)
Applied Linguistics (MA)
Master of Arts (MA)
Offered by:
,
Why pursue a Master's in Applied Linguistics?
Are you interested in understanding how languages function in the lives of individuals and communities? Do you want to develop informed expectations for language teaching and learning across different student populations?
The MA in Applied Linguistics provides a collaborative and welcoming learning environment where you will examine how languages are learned and used, as well as what roles they play in society. Courses are divided into three clusters that allow you to cultivate a broad knowledge base in language, theories of learning, and second language pedagogy.
Develop close working relationships with research-active
who act as editors and executive members of prestigious international journals (Language Learning; Language Awareness, The Canadian Modern Language Review). Our researchers also include the incoming President of the American Association of Applied Linguistics and a Canada Research Chair.
Benefit from a multilingual urban setting that includes a high proportion of trilingual youth. The City of Montreal is an ideal location to explore issues related to language policy, politics, teaching and use.
Join a diverse cohort of students who are pursuing research in second language teaching, testing and evaluation, psycholinguistics, oral and written production and the use of technologies. Languages that students have worked on in the past include Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Japanese, Brazilian Portuguese, Spanish, Ukrainian and many more.
Program Details
Two program options exist. Students in the thesis option engage in hands-on research projects which often make an original contribution to knowledge, while those in the course-based (without thesis) option have the opportunity to broaden their perspectives on applied linguistics through a variety of engaging courses.
for complete degree requirements.
Admission Requirements. Applicants are selected on the basis of their past academic record, competence in written and spoken English, letters of recommendation, and experience teaching a second or a foreign language. To be accepted into the program, a student is required to have an undergraduate degree with a minimum GPA of 3.00 (B average). An academic concentration in second language acquisition, applied linguistics, pedagogy, education, or related discipline and at least one year of professional experience in the field of second language teaching and learning or related areas are desirable. Knowledge of a second language is an asset.
Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the  for further information on the Language Proficiency requirements and exemptions.
Prior to applying, please  to request the Applied Linguistics program booklet.
Your completed application will include:
Application form and Fee
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
and . Confidential letters of reference, preferably academic, should outline the applicant’s research abilities
Statement of purpose that outlines your primary area or field of concentration and research goals
for all post-secondary institutions attended
(if applicable)
Applicants whose primary language is not English, are required to submit , unless exempted.
Please apply and submit your documents . Read the  for application procedures.
DEGREE
FALL
(September)
WINTER
(January)
SUMMER
(May/June)
Applied Linguistics
MA
Jan. 15*
Sept. 15
n/a
*Fall: Late applications may be considered until April 30.
All students take the three core courses
Applied Language Studies
Issues in Second Language Acquisition
Research Methods
Students then choose from a selection of courses that address topics such as
Sociolinguistic/Psycholingustic Aspects of Bilingualism and Multilingualism
Technology in Language Learning
Second Language Pedagogy
for a complete list of current courses.
Teaching assistantships are available and awarded on a competitive basis. Faculty members regularly secure external grants that support research assistantships for graduate students.
Credit ESL courses in the Department of Education offer graduate students paid opportunities to assist with academic writing assessment and administer placement tests.
Other awards available through the Faculty of Arts and Science include:
Concordia Merit Scholarship
Concordia University Graduate Fellowship
Hydro-Quebec Graduate Award
John W. O'Brien Graduate Fellowship
Clara Strozyk Scholarship
Out-of-Province Fee Remission Awards
Conference Travel Awards
Consideration for Entrance Awards is automatically part of the admissions process for all new students.
Please also consult Concordia’s  page and .
members are a diverse group of educators committed to excellence in teaching, research and community service. They are well known for their strong research profiles that inform their teaching and afford graduate students the opportunity to work on cutting edge research and innovative pedagogy.
Faculty research interests include:
pedagogical practices and approaches (frequency-based approaches, task-based language teaching, cognitive linguistics)
distribution of instructional time and subsequent learning outcomes (intensive vs. distributed teaching)
acquisition and assessment of second-language speech, writing, grammar, vocabulary, and pragmatics (including the use of research-based findings in teaching)
influence of first and other languages on language learning and teaching (learner language, cross-linguistic influence)
pedagogical uses of technologies and their effects on learning
cognitive and social aspects of language learning, teaching, and use (language processing, priming, language attitudes, lingua franca)
teacher education (novice teachers' beliefs and decision-making)
Review an inspiring list of .
Graduate students regularly contribute articles to the . Dedicated to the publication of a wide range of ongoing research by students and faculty in the field of Applied Linguistics, COPAL is published once a year and invites students to gain valuable publication experience by working as journal editors.
The Department also offers short-term workshops for university-level ESL students. Led by graduate students, these focused teaching experiences provide opportunities for MA students to put theory into practice.
The
(DOEIGSA) supports initiatives that encourage student well-being in the department and the university at large. The DOEIGSA aims to engage students in social issues, inside and outside the university, which are pertinent to education.
The Graduate Symposium in the Department of Education (GSDE) is an annual event that invites students across Canada to present their research. The GSDE is a student-run conference and offers you the opportunity to learn more about grant applications and event planning.
Our alumni are highly sought after by universities, colleges, language schools, government institutions, school boards, publishers, software industries, and banks, both within Canada and internationally. Recent graduates are working as professors, language teachers, project managers, pedagogical advisors, academic co-ordinators, testing specialists, dialect coaches for theatre and film, and client service managers.
Graduates have also found success as freelance writers, editors, translators, and language consultants within the gaming and mobile application industries. Several alumni have established and operate their own language schools and businesses specializing in pedagogical services for language teachers and learners.
Related Programs
Contact us
Email:
Tel.: 514-848-2424 ext. 2034
Location:
1610 Ste-Catherine Street W.,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3H 2S2
Back to top
© Concordia University
Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University
Share this page
Sir George Williams Campus
1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H3G 1M8
Loyola Campus
7141 Sherbrooke Street W.
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
H4B 1R6
© Concordia University